bookid: shoghi-effendi-messages-latin-america
title: Messages to Latin America
author: Shoghi Effendi 
category: Baha'i 
type: book
access: public 
description:    
language: en
collection: 




---

# Excerpt from a message to the Bahá’ís of the West

---
 

## 5 June 1947

To the prosecutors of the Divine Plan in the United States of America,
and the Dominion of Canada; to their co-workers and associates
throughout Central and South America, and their representatives on the
continent of Europe

*Dearly beloved co-workers:*

. . .

*In the far-flung Latin American field, where the first-fruits of the
Divine Plan, operating beyond the confines of the North American
continent, have already been garnered in such abundance, the Latin
American Bahá’í communities, from the Mexican border to the extremity of
Chile, should bestir themselves for the collective, the historic and
gigantic tasks that await them, and which must culminate, ere the expiry
of the present Plan, in the formation of two National Spiritual
Assemblies for Central and South America.*

 

*The marvellous progress achieved as a result of the operation of the
first Seven Year Plan, as evidenced by the establishment of full-fledged
Spiritual Assemblies in the virgin territories of no less than fourteen
Republics, and the formation of active groups in the remaining
Republics, has been enhanced by the even more startling expansion of
Bahá’í activity since the termination of the first stage of the Divine
Plan. As a result of this expansion Spiritual Assemblies have been
established in all the remaining Republics, the number of localities
where Bahá’ís reside has been raised to over a hundred, almost double
the number of localities in which the Faith had been introduced after
the completion of the first Seven Year Plan, the number of Spiritual
Assemblies has swelled to no less than thirty-seven, three of which have
been duly incorporated, a notable impetus has been given to the
activities of the distributing centres of Bahá’í literature in Argentina
and Panama, historic conferences have been held in these two Republics,
summer schools have been inaugurated in Argentina and Chile, and a tract
of land has been presented as a site for the first Ma_shriqu’l-A_dhkár in
Latin America. No community since the inception of the hundred-year-old
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, not even the community of the Most Great Name in
the North American continent, can boast of an evolution as rapid, a
consolidation as sound, a multiplication of centres as swift, as those
that have marked the birth and rise of the community of His followers in
Latin America.*

 

*The colossal tasks that now summon this Latin American Bahá’í community
to a challenge, cannot but dwarf, if faithfully and promptly
accomplished, the magnificent achievements that have immortalized the
first decade of organized activity in Latin American Bahá’í history. The
seed-sowing stage associated, in the main, with the labours and travels
of that saintly soul, that star-servant of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, the
incomparable Martha Root, links this decade of organized Bahá’í activity
in Latin America with both the closing years of the Heroic Age of our
Faith and the first fifteen years of the initial epoch of the Age we
live in.*

 

*The emergence of organized local communities in most of the Republics
of Latin America will be for ever associated with the exploits that have
shed such lustre on the first stage of the Divine Plan launched during
the concluding years of that first epoch of the Formative Age of our
Faith. The constitution of two independent duly elected National
Spiritual Assemblies for the northern and southern zones of Latin
America is now to be regarded as one of the most vital objectives of the
second Seven Year Plan, whose inauguration synchronizes with the opening
years of the second Bahá’í century, and which will be chiefly associated
with the first phase of the second epoch of that Age. The emergence of
these two National Assemblies, precursors of the institutions which must
participate in the election, and contribute to the support, of the
Universal House of Justice — the last crowning unit in the erection of the
fabric of the Administrative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh — must
lead, gradually and uninterruptedly, and in the course of successive
epochs of the Formative Age, to the constitution, in each of the
Republics of Central and South America, of a properly elected, fully
representative National Assembly, constituting thereby the last stage in
the administrative evolution of that Faith throughout Latin America.*

 

*In order that these future tasks may be carried out with dispatch,
efficiency, harmony and in strict accordance with the administrative and
spiritual principles of our Faith, the Latin American promoters of the
present Seven Year Plan must focus their attention on the requirements
of the present hour, close their ranks, reinforce the bonds of unity, of
solidarity and of co-operation which unite them, rededicate themselves
individually to the sacred, all-important and vital task of teaching,
exert strenuous endeavours to deepen their knowledge of the history and
fundamentals of their Faith, steep themselves in the spirit and the lore
of its teachings and acquire special training for future pioneer
activity throughout the length and breadth of the vast stretches of
territory which extend from the confines of the Great Republic in the
north to the Straits of Magellan in the south.*

 

*The process of the steady multiplication of Spiritual Assemblies,
already numbering thirty-seven, of groups whose number equals that of
the Assemblies, and of the forty localities where isolated believers
reside, must vigorously and uninterruptedly continue. The incorporation
of well-grounded Spiritual Assemblies, following the example set by the
Spiritual Assemblies of San José, Costa Rica, of Bogotá, Colombia, and
of Asunción, Paraguay, as a preliminary to the incorporation of the
future National Assemblies to be established in Latin America, must be
strenuously and efficiently carried out. A beginning, however modest,
should be made in the direction of establishing local funds, supported
by native believers and designed to supplement the financial assistance
extended by the parent community in North America, for the furtherance
of pioneer activity, for the dissemination of Bahá’í literature, for the
maintenance of local Bahá’í headquarters, for the gradual initiation of
Bahá’í endowments, such as the land offered for a Bahá’í Temple in
Chile, for the holding of conferences and of summer schools, for the
creation of publicity agencies, and for the conduct and expansion of
youth activities.*

 

*Strong and sustained support should be given to the vitally needed and
highly meritorious activities started by the native Latin American
travelling teachers, particularly in the pioneer field, who, as the
mighty task progresses, must increasingly bear the brunt of
responsibility for the propagation of the Faith in their homelands. Full
advantage should be taken of the facilities provided by the use of
practical workshop courses in Latin American pioneering at the
International School in Temerity Ranch. The two summer schools in Ezeiza
and Santiago, as well as the one planned in Vera Cruz, should be
utilized, not only as centres for the acquisition of Bahá’í learning,
but as training grounds for pioneering among the Spanish- and
Portuguese-speaking populations of all the Republics of Latin America.
The regional conferences held in Buenos Aires and Panama should be
followed by conferences of a similar character, at which a growing
number of attendants from among the ranks of Latin American believers
will assume an ever-increasing share of responsibility in the initiation
and conduct of the affairs of a continually evolving community. A
deliberate effort should be made to increase, through correspondence
teaching and its extension to all the Spanish-speaking countries, the
number of the active supporters of the Faith, so desperately needed in
view of the vastness of the field, the mighty responsibilities that have
been incurred, the smallness of the number of labourers, and the
shortness of the time at their disposal.*

 

*Other agencies, such as publicity and advertising in the press, the
multiplication of accurate and improved radio scripts, the extension of
teaching projects through regional teaching committees, visual education
and the organization of public meetings, should be fully utilized to
capture the attention, win the sympathy, and secure the active and
unreserved support of a steadily increasing proportion of the population
of the various Latin American Republics. The publishing activities of a
constantly growing community should, likewise, be stimulated, their
scope should be continually widened, the quality of Bahá’í publications,
in Spanish, Portuguese and French, be improved, and their dissemination
over a wide area be ensured. The two Spanish Bulletins, the one already
published in Santiago and the other planned in San José, should,
likewise, as an adjunct to Bahá’í publications, be developed and widely
circulated. The contact established with the two hundred and forty-four
Masonic Lodges should be reinforced by similar contacts with schools as
well as business firms established throughout the various Republics, for
the sole purpose of giving further publicity to the Faith, and winning
ultimately fresh recruits to the strength of its followers.*

 

*Particular attention, I feel, should, at this juncture, be directed to
the various Indian tribes, the aboriginal inhabitants of the Latin
Republics, whom the Author of the Tablets of the Divine Plan has
compared to the “ancient inhabitants of the Arabian Peninsula”. “Attach
great importance,” is His admonition to the entire body of the believers
in the United States and the Dominion of Canada, “to the indigenous
population of America. For these souls may be likened unto the ancient
inhabitants of the Arabian Peninsula, who, prior to the Mission of
Muḥammad, were like unto savages. When the light of Muḥammad shone forth
in their midst, however, they became so radiant as to illumine the
world. Likewise, these Indians, should they be educated and guided,
there can be no doubt that they will become so illumined as to enlighten
the whole world.” The initial contact already established, in the
concluding years of the first Bahá’í century, in obedience to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Mandate, with the Cherokee and Oneida Indians in North
Carolina and Wisconsin, with the Patagonian, the Mexican and the Inca
Indians, and the Mayans in Argentina, Mexico, Peru and Yucatán,
respectively, should, as the Latin American Bahá’í communities gain in
stature and strength, be consolidated and extended. A special effort
should be exerted to secure the unqualified adherence of members of some
of these tribes to the Faith, their subsequent election to its councils,
and their unreserved support of the organized attempts that will have to
be made in the future by the projected National Assemblies for the
large-scale conversion of Indian races to the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.*

 

*Nor should the peculiar position of the Republic of Panama be
overlooked at the present stage in the development of the Faith in Latin
America. “All the above countries,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, referring to the
Central American Republics in one of the Tablets of His Divine Plan, has
affirmed, “have importance, but especially the Republic of Panama,
wherein the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans come together through the Panama
Canal. It is a centre for travel and passage from America to other
continents of the world, and in the future it will gain most great
importance.” “Likewise,” He moreover has written, “ye must give great
attention to the Republic of Panama, for in that point the Occident and
the Orient find each other united through the Panama Canal, and it is
also situated between the two great oceans. That place will become very
important in the future. The teachings, once established there, will
unite the East and the West, the North and the South.”*

 

*The manifold activities initiated since the launching of the first
Seven Year Plan should, under no circumstances, be neglected or allowed
to stagnate. The excellent publicity accorded the Faith, and the contact
established with several leaders in that Republic should be followed up,
systematically and with the greatest care, by the growing community
within its confines. The initial contact with the Indians should be
developed with assiduous care and unfailing patience. Furthermore, the
strengthening of the bonds now being forged between the North American
communities and their sister communities in Latin America must
constitute, owing to the unique and central position occupied by that
Republic, one of the chief objectives of the Panamanian believers, the
progress of whose activities deserves to rank as one of the most notable
chapters of recent Latin American Bahá’í history.*

 

*Nor should the valuable and meritorious labours accomplished since the
inception of the first Seven Year Plan in Punta Arenas de Magallanes,
that far-off centre situated not only on the southern extremity of the
Western Hemisphere, but constituting the southernmost outpost of the
Faith in the whole world, be for a moment neglected in the course of the
second stage in the development of the Divine Plan. The Assembly already
constituted in that city, the remarkable radio publicity secured by the
believers there, the assistance extended by them to the teaching work in
other parts of Chile, should be regarded only as a prelude to the work
of consolidation which must be indefatigably pursued. This work, if
properly carried out, in conjunction with the activities associated with
the Assemblies of Santiago, Valparaiso, and Viña del Mar, and the groups
of Puerto Montt, Valdivia, Quilpué, Temuco, Sewell, Chorrillos, Mulchén
and other smaller ones, as well as several isolated localities in that
Republic, may well hasten the advent of the day when the Chilean
followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh will have established the first
independent National Spiritual Assembly to be formed by any single
nation of Latin America.*

*Whoever it may be among these Latin American communities who will
eventually carry off the palm of victory, and win this immortal
distinction, all without exception, and with equal zeal, must
participate in this vast and collective enterprise which is engaging, in
an ever-increasing measure, their attention and challenging their
resources. Let them remember that the Author of their Faith has in His
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Mother-Book of His Revelation, singled out the
company of the Presidents of their countries, together with those of the
North American continent, and addressed them in terms that sharply
contrast with the dire warnings and condemnatory words addressed
directly and indirectly to the King of Prussia, the French and Austrian
Emperors and the Sulṭán of Turkey, who, together with those Presidents,
are the only sovereigns and rulers specifically mentioned by Him in that
Book.*

 

*“Hearken ye, O rulers of America and the Presidents of the Republics
therein!” is His summons sounded in that mighty Charter of the future
world civilization, “unto that which the Dove is warbling on the Branch
of Eternity: There is none other God but Me, the Ever-Abiding, the
Forgiving, the All-Bountiful. Adorn ye the temple of dominion with the
ornament of justice and of the fear of God, and its head with the crown
of the remembrance of your Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Thus
counselleth you He Who is the Dayspring of Names, as bidden by Him Who
is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. The Promised One hath appeared in this
glorified Station, whereat all beings, both seen and unseen, have
rejoiced. Take ye advantage of the Day of God. Verily, to meet Him is
better for you than all that whereon the sun shineth, could ye but know
it. O concourse of rulers! Give ear unto that which hath been raised
from the Dayspring of Grandeur: Verily, there is none other God but Me,
the Lord of Utterance, the All-Knowing. Bind ye the broken with the
hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who flourisheth with the rod
of the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All-Wise.”*

 

*Let them ponder the honour which the Author of the Revelation Himself
has chosen to confer upon their countries, the obligations which that
honour automatically brings in its wake, the opportunities it offers,
the power it releases for the removal of all obstacles, however
formidable, which may be encountered in their path, and the promise of
guidance it implies for the attainment of the objectives alluded to in
these memorable passages.*

 

*To the eager, the warm-hearted, the spiritually-minded and staunch
members of these Latin American Bahá’í communities who, among the
followers of Bahá’u’lláh, already constitute the most considerable body
of recruits from the ranks of the most deeply entrenched and powerful
Church of Christendom; whose motherlands have been chosen as the scene
of the earliest victories won by the prosecutors of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Divine Plan; launched on their crusade for the spiritual conquest of the
whole planet; the establishment of whose projected National Spiritual
Assemblies must constitute a notable landmark in the second epoch of the
Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation; whose leading Spiritual
Assemblies are now establishing direct contact with the World Centre of
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land; the photographs of whose
elected representatives, at their chief centres, will soon adorn the
walls of His Mansion at Bahjí; a few of whose members have already
arisen to carry back the torch of Divine Guidance entrusted to their
care to the peoples and races from which they have sprung — to this
privileged, this youngest, this dynamic and highly promising member of
the organic Bahá’í world community, I feel moved, before I dismiss this
aspect of my theme, to direct this general appeal to rise to the heights
of the glorious opportunity which destiny is unfolding before its
members. Theirs is the opportunity, if they but seize it, to adorn the
opening pages of the annals of the second Bahá’í century with a tale of
deeds approaching in valour those with which their Persian brethren have
illuminated the opening years of the first, and comparable with the
exploits more recently achieved by their North American
fellow-believers, and which have shed such lustre on the closing decade
of that same century.*

*Shoghi*





---
# MESSAGES TO REGIONAL AND NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
---



## 12 July 1950
### National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá’ís of Meso-America and the Antilles and South America

*Dearly beloved friends:*

*The formation of the first National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá’ís
of Central and South America — an event hailed by the entire Bahá’í
world — constitutes a landmark of the utmost significance not only in the
history of the evolution of the Faith in Latin America, but in the
annals of the Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation as well. It
signifies the termination of the first Epoch in the rise and
establishment of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in Central and South
America — an Epoch that was ushered in on the morrow of the revelation of
the Tablets of the Divine Plan through the pioneer services rendered by
individual believers, among whom ranks as foremost that immortal and
heroic soul, Martha Root, and which culminated with the successful
prosecution of two successive historic campaigns initiated by the North
American Bahá’í Community in pursuance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan.*

 

*This second and momentous Epoch in the unfoldment of the Faith, now
being entered upon, is signalized by the emergence of two newly
established, independent, firmly-knit regional communities, embracing
all the Republics of Central and South America, stretching from the
borders of Mexico as far as the southern extremity of Chile, comprising
no less than forty organized Local Assemblies, many of them already
incorporated, every one of them animated by the spiritual verities of
one common Faith, and all of them functioning in accordance with the
principles of a vigorously operating, divinely appointed Administrative
Order.*

 

*This new phase in the development of an irresistibly advancing Faith
presages, moreover, the formal association of these twin newly-emerged
communities with their parent community in the North American continent
in the prosecution of the Plan, conceived by the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant, among the Latin American races now awakening to the clarion
call sounded by Him in His immortal Tablets. Though not enjoying the
status and privileges conferred in that same Plan by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the
North American Bahá’í Community, yet, in view of the momentous and
stirring summons issued by the Author of the Revelation in His Most Holy
Book addressed to the Rulers of all the Republics of the Western
Hemisphere, both of these communities may be said to have been invested
with rights and duties which no community in any continent of the
Eastern Hemisphere can claim to possess.*

 

*This association, which will be formally inaugurated with the
termination of the Second Seven Year Plan, and which is destined to
reveal its potentialities in the course of the unfoldment of the
Formative Age of the Faith, and particularly as a consequence of the
formation of separate National Spiritual Assemblies in each of the
Republics of Latin America, is a distinction which every adherent of the
Faith, whether a native believer or a North American pioneer labouring
in Central or South America, must constantly bear in mind. Its
importance cannot be overestimated, nor can its full significance be
assessed at the present hour.*

 

*The consolidation of the existing Assemblies; the multiplication of
groups; the steady development of the process of Bahá’í incorporation;
the expansion of the all-important task of translating, publishing and
disseminating Bahá’í literature in Spanish and Portuguese; the
consolidation of the recently inaugurated national and local Funds; the
strengthening of such institutions as Bahá’í National Committees, Summer
Schools, Conventions and Regional Teaching Conferences; the acceleration
of the highly meritorious work already commenced amongst the Indians in
both Central and South America; the progressive proclamation of the
verities of the Faith to all sections of the population of Latin
America; above all the triple task of constantly deepening the spiritual
life of the individual believer, of enriching his understanding of the
spiritual and administrative principles of his Faith, and of cementing
the unity of each local community — these stand out as the foremost
responsibilities to be assumed during these two concluding years of the
Second Seven Year Plan by the two newly formed National Spiritual
Assemblies of Central and South America, in preparation for the
launching of specially conceived, clearly defined plans, the initiation
of which must mark the formal association of the Bahá’í Communities of
Latin America with the National Bahá’í Communities in the United States
and Canada, for the furtherance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s world-embracing,
master Plan, now still in the embryonic stage of its development.*

 

*Afire with the vision now unfolding itself before their eyes; conscious
of the sacred responsibility which, as implied in the ringing words
recorded in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, they must increasingly shoulder;
fortified by the contemplation of the manner and rapidity with which
their beloved Faith has struck its roots into the soil of their
homelands; confident that the same mysterious and unconquerable Power
that has watched over the operation, and ensured the consummation, of
the specific Plans undertaken by various National Bahá’í Communities in
recent years in both the East and the West will, as they prepare to
launch their own collective enterprises in the years immediately ahead,
vouchsafe to them Its sustaining grace and unfailing guidance, the
members of these newly emerged Communities and, above all, their
recently elected national representatives, must display, during this
period of transition, a spirit of dedication, a tenacity of purpose, a
willingness for self-sacrifice, that will surpass anything as yet
exhibited in their past history, which will at once excite the envy and
admiration of their older sister communities in all the continents of
the globe, and enable them to acquire the spiritual potentialities that
will assist them to take their honoured place in the ranks of those same
Communities which, in various regions of the world, are collectively and
energetically carrying out their own national campaigns in the service
and for the glory of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.*

 

*That they may prove themselves worthy of the mission with which they
will soon be formally invested; that they may never allow anything to
interfere with the successful conclusion of this present preparatory
phase of their historic task; that they may, through the quality of
their devotion and the solidity of their achievements, rejoice the souls
of the Concourse on high, and, above all, the Spirits of the Holy Báb,
of Bahá’u’lláh, and of His beloved Son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; that they may
contribute their share, as independent pillars, in sustaining the House,
whose erection must mark the culmination of the establishment of the
Administrative Order of their Faith, is the dearest wish of my heart, my
constant hope and my ardent prayer.*

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*


---



## 11 July 1951 \[Dominican Republic\]

### National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Meso-America and the Antilles

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of May 5, 1951, as well as the report of the Convention and
minutes of your first Assembly meeting, and the photographs you sent,
have reached our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer
you on his behalf.

 

It gives him very great happiness to address this first letter to your
Assembly, newly come into the field of international service to the
Faith, and so ready and eager to embark upon its truly historic tasks.

 

The believers of Central and South America are embarking upon their
services at a most important time, not only in the history of this great
Cause, but also in the history of mankind. Never has the outlook in this
physical world been darker — with the shadow of perhaps another
devastating conflict lengthening on the horizon — never the spiritual
promise greater, for we see the Message of Bahá’u’lláh at last spreading
all over the globe and planting its banner in the most distant
countries.

 

The opportunities for this new National Assembly to distinguish itself
are therefore unique and its privilege priceless. He feels sure that the
Latin American believers are going to demonstrate their readiness and
capacity in such a way as to rejoice their fellow-Bahá’ís and the heart
of the beloved Master.

 

Like the United States and Canada, Latin America is the New World; it
has the freshness of youth, the vigour and hope that youth possesses,
and far from such ancient civilizations as those of Europe and Asia,
with their interminable problems and grievances, it can undertake
service to Bahá’u’lláh under more auspicious circumstances.

 

He feels that your Assembly must, now at the very beginning of its work,
devote its energy primarily to laying a sound and abiding foundation for
the future. What does this imply? First and foremost establishing
harmony, love and understanding amongst the Bahá’ís under its
jurisdiction. When the friends are united in the love of God all
problems can be solved and all work carried out with success. Personal
problems, differences of race, nationality, origin, are dissolved in the
crucible of Bahá’í brotherhood.

 

Second, the teaching work: the Local Assemblies must be maintained and
strengthened and the groups encouraged and protected, so that they may
attain Assembly status as soon as possible; extension teaching work must
also be undertaken and news of the existence of this Faith broadcast as
much as possible.

 

Third, the National Fund must be supported. The friends are, for the
most part, not well-to-do, but they must realize that to give to the
Fund, even in a small way, is the important thing, for it is a visible
sign of their unity, their devotion, their desire to support the
institutions which now represent them and *belong* *to* *them*.

 

Fourth, your Assembly, in conjunction with that of South America, should
devote particular attention to Bahá’í literature, as in the past the
publication of really adequate translations and their dissemination has
been often delayed and the books inferior in style. The Spanish-speaking
Bahá’ís, becoming more numerous all the time, have a right to possess
the literature of the Faith, so infinitely rich and inspiring, in their
own tongue and well translated.

 

The Guardian feels that during the coming few years your Assembly should
not hesitate to lean on and consult the American Assembly. This in no
way implies any weakness or inadequacy on your part, but is logical and
organic. The American National Spiritual Assembly is one of the oldest
in the Bahá’í world, it has gone through a lot, and consequently
acquired an experience which cannot be obtained overnight. It also looks
upon with pride, affection, and concern this beautiful daughter, so to
speak, that it has brought into being. So your tie is a deep and natural
one.

 

Shoghi Effendi is also most anxious for the Message to reach the
aboriginal inhabitants of the Americas. These people, for the most part
downtrodden and ignorant, should receive from the Bahá’ís a special
measure of love, and every effort be made to teach them. Their enrolment
in the Faith will enrich them and us, and demonstrate our principle of
the Oneness of Man far better than words or the wide conversion of the
ruling races ever can.

 

You may be sure that the Guardian will watch your work with the keenest
interest, and surround you all with his loving prayers.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love, 
> R. Rabbani






## 11 July 1951 \[Peru\]

National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of South America



Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 7, as well as the report of your first Convention and
the minutes of your Assembly meeting, was received, and our beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

His heart was filled with joy upon hearing of the success of the first
Convention, and the sentiments expressed by your Assembly touched him
deeply.

 

He feels sure these two new National Bahá’í Bodies will greatly enrich
the Bahá’í World Community, and accomplish noble feats in the service of
Bahá’u’lláh.

 

It is truly significant and inspiring to think that there are now four
National Assemblies in the New World. It shows what vitality and promise
these young nations have, and these characteristics will aid them in
their Bahá’í service.

 

Your Assembly is called upon to direct and safeguard the activities of
our Faith in a truly vast and impressive area. But the very newness of
the work, the room for spiritual conquest, the great need of the people,
both aboriginal and European in origin, to hear of Bahá’u’lláh, is
stimulating and challenging, and must call forth the best in every
believer.

 

Now that you have the privilege of building from the very beginning a
new National Institution he feels special attention should be devoted to
laying a deep and permanent foundation. The basis of all successful work
in this Faith is that true brotherhood and unity should prevail amongst
the believers. To promote unity and love amongst the friends is your
first duty.

 

Your second is undoubtedly the teaching work: to maintain and increase
the existing Assemblies, develop the groups into new Assemblies, carry
on extension teaching work, and bring the Cause before the public.

 

Next to this comes support of the National Fund: all the believers must
be encouraged to give financial help to the work; the Guardian realizes
the friends are for the most part not well-to-do, but they must realize
that the act of giving, however modest the sum, is a sign of unity and
brings blessings to the united work all are undertaking for Bahá’u’lláh.

 

Another important matter is to provide, in conjunction with the Central
American National Assembly, adequate literature in good translations.
Your Assembly will, naturally, have the added responsibility of
Portuguese literature.

 

The Guardian feels that special efforts must be made to enrol the
primitive peoples of South America in the Cause. These souls, often so
exploited and despised, deserve to hear of the Faith, and will become a
great asset to it once their hearts are enlightened.

 

Shoghi Effendi, as you know, attaches particular importance to
Magallanes and to maintain the Assembly there is one of your
responsibilities. It constitutes one of the distant outposts of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, and represents a hard won trophy; it must be
maintained at all costs.

 

Your Assembly has not entered upon its stewardship empty-handed; on the
contrary, unlike most National Bodies that have begun with nothing, so
to speak, you are already enriched by having two Summer School
properties under your jurisdiction: Loncoche and Ezeiza. He hopes these
budding institutions will grow and flourish, and rejoice the hearts of
the dear friends who so generously, in the beginning of the work in
Latin America, established them for the glory of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

It is truly inspiring to think that in relatively so short a time the
Bahá’í Community of the United States should have given birth to these
two beautiful daughter-Assemblies in the southern part of the New World.
He, therefore, considers it wise and proper that for a few years your
Assembly should keep in close touch with its “parent”, who, like all
parents, has had the benefit of long years of experience, and passed
through many trials, and is therefore in a position to help you with
advice and other support.

 

For the first time in Bahá’í history we see constellations of National
Bodies, so to speak, co-operating for the good of the Faith: in Africa,
England is working closely with the National Spiritual Assemblies of
Persia, Egypt, India and the United States. Upon the success of the
close co-operation between your Assembly, that of Meso-America, and the
United States during the coming years will depend, to a great extent,
not only the speed of achievement in the future, but also plans to be
undertaken by the National Bodies of the New World.

 

All your work will be watched by the Guardian with the keenest interest,
and his loving prayers be offered for your success and guidance.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. In answer to the question raised in your letter of June 5 as
regards divorce: The Guardian says that if within a country divorce,
because of affiliation of Church and State in this matter, is considered
illegal, the Bahá’ís must be bound by this law. At the present time they
must under no circumstances raise such matters with any Government in
question. This means that it is not right for a believer to get a
divorce outside of, say Colombia, and then remarry outside and return
there, where his divorce would be illegal.

---



## 15 July 1951 \[National Spiritual Assembly of South America, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Enclosed please find a receipt for the loving and generous contribution
forwarded by you (in your letter of May 2nd) for work on the Shrine of
the Báb.

The Guardian was much touched by this sum gathered on the historic
occasion of the first South American Bahá’í Convention. Surely
contributions such as these enrich the spiritual significance of the
holy Edifice being erected at the World Centre of the Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deepfelt appreciation of the spirit animating the
friends and the members of your Assembly in making their contribution,
and of my ardent and loving prayers for the success of their high
endeavours,*

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*


---

## 30 June 1952 \[Panama\]

Miss Elena Maria Marsella, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of Central America

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letters of July 10 and 20, September 3, 6 and 26, signed by the
treasurer, Mr. J. V. Facey, October 6 (2), November 2, December 4, 27
and 31, 1951, and January 17, March 12 and 21 and May 13, 1952 with
their enclosures have been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf. I am also enclosing a receipt
for the sum sent by the friends for the work on the Shrine of the Báb.

 

He was particularly pleased to see that members of your Assembly have
been out travelling and contacting the friends in an effort to deepen
their understanding of the workings of the administration and also their
knowledge of the Faith in general. He feels that particularly at present
in Latin America this intimate, loving and friendly approach will do
more to further the work than anything else. Indeed, he would go so far
as to advise your Assembly to avoid deluging the friends with circulars
and unnecessary bulletins. You must always bear in mind the genuine
difference between the peoples of the south and the peoples of the
north; to use the same techniques as those adopted in the United States
would be disastrous because the mentality and background of life are
quite different. Much as the friends need administration, it must be
brought to them in a palatable form, otherwise they will not be able to
assimilate it and instead of consolidating the work you will find some
of the believers become estranged from it.

 

Whenever you feel at all discouraged you should remember how many years
it took for the administration to get as well established as it is at
present in North America. Problems repeat themselves and in the earlier
stages in the U.S.A. the body of the believers was very loosely knit
together, many of the friends were, as they now are in Latin America,
affiliated with various more or less progressive cults from which they
had come to the Faith and from which they could not be suddenly cut off;
they had to be weaned and educated; the same thing you must now do. He
urges you therefore to be very patient with the believers, and, through
loving consultation and education, gradually insist that the old
allegiances must give way to the great and all-satisfying bond they have
now found with Bahá’u’lláh and His Faith.

 

Mature teachers are the greatest need of the Faith everywhere, and no
doubt in your area too. One wise and dedicated soul can so often give
life to an inactive community, bring in new people and inspire to
greater sacrifice. He hopes that whatever else you are able to do during
the coming months, you will be able to keep in circulation a few really
good Bahá’í teachers.

 

He was delighted to receive the documents concerning your incorporation
and feels this is a great step forward. He also appreciated having the
minutes sent him in English.

 

> The various enclosures you forwarded were also appreciated.

 

The recent Convention, though poorly attended, will no doubt have
constructive repercussions in the lives of the believers and stimulate
the growth of the communities. Your task is great, but the Bahá’ís are
devoted and loyal and will, he feels sure, rise to ever greater heights
as time goes by and they see the first-fruits of their labours being
garnered.

 

He assures you all, and through you the body of the friends, of his
loving prayers on your behalf.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. Regarding the status of the Antilles: this is a matter which has to
do with the plan to be undertaken in the next ten years and nothing to
do at present with your Assembly’s plan.

 

 *Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*Despite my intense occupation with the complex and numerous problems
and grave issues that have confronted me, and absorbed my energies
during recent months at the World Centre of the Faith — cares and
anxieties that have unfortunately been responsible for the unavoidable
delay in acknowledging your Assembly’s communications, I have
nevertheless been following with unqualified admiration the progress of
your activities, and have been deeply impressed by the perseverance, the
fidelity, the devotion and single-mindedness which have characterized
the services you have performed for the spread and consolidation of the
Faith in Central America.*

 

*The Two Year Plan you have spontaneously initiated, the vigour with
which you are prosecuting it, the noble aim that has animated you ever
since its adoption, the vigilance and thoroughness with which you
endeavour to safeguard the interests of the nascent institutions of the
Faith, and promote their welfare and consolidate their foundations,
merit the highest praise. I feel truly grateful for the manner in which
you face your manifold responsibilities and discharge your sacred and
pressing duties. Though the issues confronting you are complex, numerous
and urgent, the spirit of consecration you have consistently displayed
since the assumption of your high office augurs well for the future
expansion of your activities and the consummation of your allotted
task.*

 

*The year we have just entered, marking the closing stage of the Plan
you have undertaken and the termination of the initial chapter in the
life of your newly-emerged Assembly, must witness as it speeds to its
end, a dedication to your collective task more compelling than any you
have already demonstrated and a vigorous prosecution of the work on
which you have embarked more splendid than any that has thus far
distinguished your stewardship of His Faith. As the interval separating
the birth of your Assembly from the assignment of a new mission that
will enable you to participate in the World Crusade, destined to be
launched by the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in both the East and the West,
rapidly diminishes, your efforts must be correspondingly redoubled to
arouse the entire community of the steadfast and devoted believers in
every Republic of Central America and throughout the Greater Antilles,
and enable them to appreciate the nature of their future task and the
urgency of their present responsibilities, and to more completely
dedicate themselves to the work in which they are now engaged — a work
which should be regarded as a prelude to the enterprises they will be
called upon to launch on the morrow of the world-wide celebrations of a
steadily approaching Holy Year.*

 

*For not only in the Western Hemisphere and its neighbouring Islands,
but farther afield, amidst the numerous Islands and Dependencies of the
South Pacific Ocean, must the community of the Most Great Name, now
firmly rooted in Central America and the West Indies, demonstrate its
capacity to establish, on solid foundations, the administrative
structure of a world-embracing divinely conceived Order, and win its
greatest victories. Nothing short of a rapid consolidation and a steady
multiplication of the administrative centres so laboriously brought into
being, and a fuller understanding, on the part of those who are summoned
to participate in the great undertakings of the future, of the essential
truths underlying their Faith, of the provisions of the Covenant that
acts as its shield, and of the distinguishing features of the Order
which is to be regarded as its stronghold, can empower them to launch,
efficiently and confidently, the enterprises that must signalize the
inauguration of their Mission beyond the confines of their native
lands.*

 

*That they may become increasingly aware of the requirements of the
present hour; that they may lend increasing support to your Assembly in
the discharge of your multitudinous duties; that your own Assembly may
set a sublime example to the rank and file of the believers within your
jurisdiction; and may, through its able conduct of its affairs, win the
admiration of its sister communities throughout the Bahá’í world; and,
through its inspiring leadership, attract a bountiful measure of the
blessings of the One Who in His immortal Tablets anticipated the birth
and rise of your community, is the dearest wish of my heart and the
object of my ardent prayers.*

 

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*




## 30 June 1952 \[Peru\]

Mr. Manuel Vera, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of South America

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letters of May 17, August 3,
September 3, October 29 and December 28, 1951, and January 5,
January 11, February 16 and April 7, 1952, with enclosures, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

With the rapid growth of the Cause everywhere the Guardian finds it
increasingly difficult to write frequently to various National
Assemblies, hence the delay in answering your letters. However, he
follows with keen interest the progress of the work, and feels that
notable growth is evident in your region.

 

He was particularly pleased to see the Plan you have formulated for the
coming year; it seems a well-balanced one and possible of achievement — a
most important point, as otherwise the friends become discouraged if
they fail.

 

Your recent Convention was also an obvious success and very well
attended, all things considered.

 

He was very happy to note the offer of dear Mr. and Mrs. Juan Casavelos
to pioneer. They, and the dear Tormos, can no doubt add a great deal to
the teaching work in their region during the coming months.

 

The news of the incorporation of so many Local Assemblies was also very
welcome; he hopes the Argentina ones will soon be added, and thus
complete the circle for South America.

 

The loving sympathy conveyed by your Assembly on the occasion of
Mr. Maxwell’s passing was much appreciated, and he was glad to see the
friends had held a meeting at the grave of dear Mrs. Maxwell.

 

He fully appreciates the fact that the believers are still somewhat
attached to the different cults from which they have come; this is a
problem which always faces the Faith in a new region; it existed a long
time in America, and seems part of the growth of the Cause. He feels
your Assembly can afford to be patient with the friends, while at the
same time educating them into a deeper understanding of the Cause. As
their awareness of the true significance of Bahá’u’lláh grows, they will
become weaned from the old ideas and give full allegiance to His
teachings.

 

The Latin American communities are still on the threshold of their
international Bahá’í life; he feels sure that they will rapidly grow
into it. Compared with the length of time it took the North American,
the British, and the French communities to grow up and spread, their
growth is like lightning. As the Cause spreads all over the world its
rate of acceleration increases, too, and new centres in Africa, in some
mysterious way, have spiritual repercussions which aid in forming new
centres everywhere.

 

Please assure all the friends of his admiration for the progress they
are making and of his loving prayers for the achievement of their new
Plan.

 

He assures you, and all the members of your Assembly, of his loving
prayers.

 

> With Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. As regards the question you asked: Now is not the time to present
the Words of Bahá’u’lláh to the Rulers of America; when the Cause
becomes stronger in Latin America you can reconsider the advisability of
doing so.

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*



*The multitudinous activities and enterprises which have, in recent
months, required my close and immediate attention, have, to my great
regret, interfered with the prompt acknowledgement of the letters which
various National Assemblies have addressed me in the course of this year
so crowded with developments at once historic and far reaching in their
significance. I have, however, followed with keen interest and ever
deepening admiration the steady growth and consolidation of the nascent
institutions of the Faith now rising so hopefully under your guidance
throughout the South American Republics. The reports you have enclosed
in your communications, the minutes of your Assembly, the copies of the
Spanish Bulletins and other publications, the description of your annual
Convention, above all the One Year Plan you have so splendidly
formulated — all attest the vigour, the fidelity, the constancy and the
devotion that have characterized your conduct of Bahá’í affairs since
the emergence of your Assembly as an independent future pillar of the
Universal House of Justice destined to crown the Administrative Edifice
of a world-embracing Faith.*

 

*The year that has just opened will be regarded by posterity as a
prelude to the initiation of the large-scale enterprises destined to be
launched by the Bahá’í communities throughout Latin America in foreign
fields, as the rightful associates of the chief executors of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, and on the morrow of the inauguration of a
fate-laden fast approaching Holy Year.*

 

*Whilst these budding, highly promising, swiftly consolidating
communities brace themselves, individually as well as collectively, for
active participation in the World Crusade, the launching of which will
constitute the chief feature of the celebrations which are to signalize
the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission, their
members must, as the present year unfolds, display an extraordinary
degree of consecration and intensify to an unprecedented extent, their
activities, for the multiplication of Bahá’í centres, for the enrichment
of their spiritual lives, for the consolidation of their newly-born
institutions, for the dissemination of the literature of their Faith,
for the incorporation of their newly formed Assemblies, for the forging
of fresh links binding them to their spiritual brethren overseas, and
for a fuller understanding of the aims and purposes of the Order within
whose Orbit they function and of the Covenant under whose sheltering
shadow they labour.*

 

*The task awaiting them within as well as beyond the confines of the
Western Hemisphere, as official participators in two of the four
intercontinental conferences planned for the immediate future, is truly
historic and too vast to be properly assessed at the present hour. Every
day that passes must be prized and utilized to the fullest extent in
preparation for the Mission which has to be undertaken, the
responsibilities that are to be shouldered, and the collective
contribution which is to be made towards the spread of the Cause of God
by the Latin-American followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in various
continents and islands of the globe.*

 

*Time is running short. The hour is critical. The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh is entering upon a new, crucial and glorious stage in its
unfoldment. Though young in years, though inexperienced as compared to
its sister communities in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres,
though its material resources are strictly circumscribed, though the
area in which it operates is vast and the obstacles standing in its way
manifo1d, this community, now still standing on the threshold of its
independent existence, must, in recognition of the bounties showered
upon it from on high, and as a token of its gratitude for the privileges
bestowed upon it, arise, and exhibit such a spirit of dedication as to
astonish the entire Bahá’í world, and seek to repay, however
inadequately, its debt to the spirit of an ever-vigilant Master, through
the operation of Whose Will it was called into being and to Whose
immortal Tablets, bequeathed in the evening of His life, it owes the
impulse that has generated its very life.*

 

*I will, in my hours of meditation and prayer, recall the spirit which
has animated this community since its birth, will gratefully acknowledge
the services it has already rendered, and will supplicate with added
fervour for its further illumination, its continued expansion and the
ultimate fruition of its destiny.*

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*

---


## April 1953 \[South American Convention\]

CONGRATULATE ASSEMBLED DELEGATES THIRD CONVENTION BAHÁ’ÍS SOUTH AMERICA
NOTABLE RECORD MERITORIOUS ACCOMPLISHMENTS SOUTH AMERICAN BELIEVERS
SERVICE FAITH BAHÁ’U’LLÁH. RANGE QUALITY WORK PERFORMED ENTITLE THEM
PLAY NOTEWORTHY PART PROSECUTION IMPENDING DECADE-LONG WORLD SPIRITUAL
CRUSADE. TEN YEAR PLAN CONSTITUTING NEW CHAPTER EVOLUTION FAITH
REPUBLICS SOUTH AMERICA INVOLVES *FIRST* ESTABLISHMENT WITH ASSISTANCE
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY BAHÁ’ÍS UNITED STATES NATIONAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY EACH TEN SOUTH AMERICAN REPUBLICS ARGENTINA BOLIVIA BRAZIL
CHILE COLOMBIA ECUADOR PARAGUAY PERU URUGUAY VENEZUELA *SECOND*
INCORPORATION ABOVE-MENTIONED ASSEMBLIES *THIRD* OPENING FOLLOWING
VIRGIN TERRITORIES EIGHT AMERICA BRITISH GUIANA CHILOÉ ISLAND DUTCH
GUIANA FRENCH GUIANA GALAPAGOS ISLANDS JUAN FERNANDEZ ISLAND LEEWARD
ISLANDS WINDWARD ISLANDS ONE ASIA COOK ISLANDS *FOURTH* CONSOLIDATION
FAITH EACH ABOVE-MENTIONED SOUTH AMERICAN REPUBLICS *FIFTH* REGISTRATION
LAND PURCHASED SANTIAGO CHILE ANTICIPATION FIRST MA*SH*RIQ’UL-A*DH*KÁR
SOUTH AMERICA *SIXTH* DOUBLING NUMBER LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
LOCALITIES EACH TEN SOUTH AMERICAN REPUBLICS *SEVENTH* DOUBLING NUMBER
INCORPORATED LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES REPUBLICS SAME AREA *EIGHTH*
ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL ḤAẓÍRATU’L-Quds capital each ten south American
republiCS *NINTH* ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS EACH REPUBLICS SOUTH
AMERICA *TENTH* FORMATION AMERICAN ASIAN TEACHING COMMITTEES CHARGED
TASK FURTHERING TEACHING WORK PLAN *ELEVENTH* ESTABLISHMENT LATIN
AMERICAN BAHÁ’Í PUBLISHING TRUST RIO DE JANEIRO BRAZIL. SUPPLICATING
ALMIGHTY GUIDE SUSTAIN SOUTH AMERICAN BELIEVERS ACTING AS ASSOCIATES
CHIEF EXECUTORS ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S DIVINE PLAN CONSUMMATE SACRED TASKS
CONFRONTING THEM SERVICE FAITH BAHÁ’U’LLÁH LEND IMPETUS PROCESS
CONSOLIDATION ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER FAITH SOUTHERN REPUBLICS WESTERN
HEMISPHERE.

---


## 11 June 1953 \[Peru\]

To the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of South America

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian has been greatly encouraged by reports reaching him
from all parts of the Bahá’í world of the victories already gained, and
the plans being laid for the prosecution of the Ten Year Crusade.

They have evoked his awe-inspiring and soul-stirring cablegram of
May 28th, calling for the immediate settlement of all the 131 virgin
areas of the Plan. He is convinced that the friends will arise and
translate their enthusiasm into action, because the keynote of the
crusade must be action, action, action!

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write your Assembly to amplify
some of the aspects of his dynamic message.

The settlement of these virgin areas is of such an emergency nature,
that he feels pioneering in one of them takes precedence over every
other type of Bahá’í service — whether it be in the teaching or
administrative fields of the Faith.

In the United States some 150 people have volunteered for pioneer
service, and some of them already are preparing to leave for their
posts. The Guardian has informed the United States National Assembly,
that because of their being the chief executor of the Divine Plan of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá for teaching throughout the world, their pioneers may be
sent to any virgin area in the world, regardless of which National
Spiritual Assembly it may be assigned to. If any of their pioneers wish
to settle in any of the areas assigned to your Assembly, they will
communicate with you.

There are some general observations which the Guardian shares with you,
and then some specific suggestions which are enumerated below:

1\. Every individual who offers to pioneer should be encouraged and
assisted in every way possible by the National Assembly.

2\. Every application for pioneering must be expedited, and not allowed
to drag in any way, either in the handling by the National Spiritual
Assembly, or any committee working out the details for the National
Spiritual Assembly.

3\. The National Assembly must make the settlement of their virgin areas
the first order of their business. In other words, nothing is more
important at this time, than settlement in the 131 virgin areas.

4\. More than two pioneers should not be sent to any one place, unless,
of course, they are members of one family. In fact, what is wanted is to
settle each area with Bahá’ís, and therefore, one Bahá’í will fulfil the
initial task.

> The specific suggestions which the Guardian makes are:

a\. Areas close at hand and easy of settlement should be filled first.
Then the areas more difficult, and finally, the difficult ones.

b\. Whenever a pioneer enters a new territory, a cable should be sent at
once to the beloved Guardian, giving the name, place and any pertinent
information.

c\. A report should be sent each month by your Assembly to the
Secretary-General of the International Bahá’í Council, giving the
progress of your teaching work in the virgin areas of the Plan,
particularly the development of your plans for settling them. This does
not mean your Assembly should correspond with the International Council
concerning administrative matters, as all administrative matters should
be handled in the usual manner, directly with the Guardian. It simply
means that reports and data concerning the development of the Plan
should be sent to the International Council for consolidation with other
reports, for the Guardian.

d\. The Guardian feels the following areas should be easily settled; and
he would appreciate your arranging to send pioneers there at the
earliest possible date.

> Chiloé Island Leeward Islands
> Galápagos Islands Windward Islands
> Juan Fernández Islands Cook Islands

As his dramatic cable indicates, the Guardian is preparing an
illuminated “Roll of Honour”, on which will be inscribed the names of
the “Knights of Bahá’u’lláh” who first enter these 131 virgin areas.
This “Roll of Honour” will be placed inside the entrance door of the
inner sanctuary of the Tomb of Bahá’u’lláh.

From time to time, the Guardian will announce to the Bahá’í world, the
names of those holy souls who arise under the conditions outlined in his
message, and settle these areas, and conquer them for God.

Now is the time for the Bahá’ís of the world to demonstrate the
spiritual vitality of the Faith, and to arise as one soul to spread the
Glory of the Lord over the face of the earth. The Guardian is sure the
spiritual power released with the launching of this great Ten Year
Global Crusade will carry the consecrated and devoted friends to
complete victory.

He will pray for the members of your Assembly, whose sacrificial
services he greatly values.

> Faithfully yours,
> Assistant Secretary



---



## 19 June 1953 \[Panama\]

Miss Elena Maria Marsella, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Central America

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letters of May 24 and 30; July 5
and 18 (2); September 25; and October 29, 1952; and January 7 and
27 (2); February 5, and March 17, 1953, and has instructed me to answer
you on his behalf. The enclosures have also been received.

 

> Regarding the matters you have raised in your letters:

 

Such details as to whether the Local Spiritual Assemblies should ratify
your Declaration of Trust or not are left to your Assembly to decide. He
already, in any case, replied to you by cable.

 

The Guardian encourages the various National Spiritual Assemblies to
show initiative and originality in minor matters whilst adhering to
uniformity in major matters; he therefore feels your Assembly is capable
of developing its own News Letter along the lines best suited to the
needs in the various countries under its jurisdiction. What you outlined
as your present policy sounded quite all right to him.

 

Please express to … his appreciation of the help he gave you in regard
to your National Incorporation. A distinguished lawyer in Canada has for
many years helped the friends in similar matters at no cost to them.
Such good friends are very dear to our hearts.

 

He was pleased to hear the Assembly members had been so active in
travelling and stimulating the work.

 

He received the material on Panfrish sent by Mr. Fitz-Henley, and is
happy to see such an energetic thinker is now active in promoting the
Faith; the Cause of God needs such enterprising promoters, and he hopes
this dear friend will render great services in the teaching field.

 

As regards the “Administrative Manual”: he urges you to not add to the
rules and regulations, but try to cut down on these and decide cases as
they arise; there is a natural tendency to codify the teachings and
produce handbooks of procedure: there are not enough Bahá’ís in the
whole world to justify this, and he continuously urges the various
National Spiritual Assemblies to beware of this tendency. He has no
time, at all, to go over such things himself; indeed, your Assembly, and
all the others, will have to assume increasing responsibility for your
work in order to relieve him. He is worn out with all his work and added
material to read.

…

The Guardian feels confident that the believers of Central America,
under the able leadership of your Assembly, will succeed in achieving
all the objectives of their portion of the Ten Year Plan, and will thus
add to their spiritual stature and to the glory of the Cause of God in
Latin America. They must realize that their period of youth, so to
speak, is now passed, and they have emerged into the responsibilities of
maturity; ever increasingly upon their own efforts will depend the
success of their labours. He will be following the course of their
activities with eager interest, you may be sure.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The splendid achievements which signalized the birth and early
development of the National Spiritual Assembly representing the Central
American Bahá’í community — achievements that merit the highest praise and
have evoked profound admiration in the hearts of the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh in both East and West — have, no doubt, qualified its members
to take their place, and play a distinct and notable part, in the newly
launched and decade-long World Crusade destined to illumine the annals
of the Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation.*

 

*The vigilance, fidelity, single-mindedness and perseverance displayed
by them, as well as by their elected national representatives, in recent
years; the series of projects they have successfully carried out, in
both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity, which
have, in no small measure, contributed to the multiplication of Bahá’í
centres, the consolidation of Bahá’í institutions, and the dissemination
of Bahá’í literature; the endeavours they have so devotedly exerted to
give publicity to the Faith, to its aims, purposes and principles — these
constitute a record of achievement which augurs well for their future
contribution to the progress of the world-wide enterprise initiated by
their fellow-believers embracing every continent of the globe, and which
bids fair to eclipse any previous collective undertaking embarked upon
by the adherents of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh since the inception of the
Formative Age of His Dispensation.*

 

*The task that now challenges their limited resources, that demands the
undivided and close attention of each one of them, will, if worthily
fulfilled, add imperishable lustre to the mighty and brilliant record of
unforgettable achievements which will for ever be associated with the
stalwart followers of His Faith dwelling in the Western Hemisphere.*

 

*The first and foremost duty devolving upon them is the prosecution,
with whatever resources they command and with all the enthusiasm, the
resolution and consecration of which they are capable, of their Ten Year
Plan that constitutes so vital a part of the global Crusade to which the
entire Bahá’í world now stands committed.*

 

*Of all the objectives which the members of this valiant community must
assiduously strive to attain, ere the termination of the present decade,
the dispatch of pioneers to the seven territories and islands — four of
which are situated in the Western Hemisphere and the rest in the South
Pacific Ocean — allocated to the members of this community must be
considered of paramount importance, requiring the immediate and
concentrated attention of its elected national representatives. Every
effort should be exerted, every sacrifice should be made, to ensure the
attainment of this primary objective ere the conclusion of this current
year. This supreme, immediate objective, as well as the acquisition of
the site of the First Ma*sh*riqu’l-A*dh*kár of Central America, should
be regarded as the outstanding features of the initial phase of the Plan
launched so auspiciously by the Bahá’ís of Central America on the morrow
of the celebrations commemorating the centenary of the birth of the
Mission of the Founder of their Faith.*

 

*The prompt settlement of at least one pioneer in each of these virgin
territories; the selection and purchase of the site of the future
Temple, within the limits, or in the immediate outskirts, of the city of
Panama, which need not exceed, for the present, an area of approximately
one acre; the formation of an American as well as of an Asian Teaching
Committee that will vigorously and speedily arise to discharge its
duties — these constitute the first obligations to be assumed by the
Central American National Assembly in the course of the opening year of
the Plan.*

 

*Already its sister National Assemblies have been urged to participate,
through financial contributions, in an undertaking which, in the course
of years, will culminate in the erection of a Bahá’í House of Worship in
the heart of the Western Hemisphere, and in a country singled out for
specific mention by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His immortal Tablets.*

 

*While these preliminary measures are being carried out by the members
of this Assembly, the process of the steady multiplication of Bahá’í
centres and the formation of Bahá’í Spiritual Assemblies must, under no
circumstances, be allowed to slacken. It should, indeed, be accelerated,
by every means at the disposal of your Assembly, for upon it must depend
the early formation of independent National Assemblies in both Central
America and the Antilles — an objective which, though not immediate, is
nevertheless worthy to rank as the most vital among the aims and
purposes which the prosecutors of the Plan have set themselves to
achieve.*

 

*The field that stretches before them is so vast; the challenge that
confronts them is at once severe and thrilling; the mission with which
they have been entrusted is truly glorious and demands the utmost
sacrifice; the reward that awaits them, if they worthily fulfil it in
the allotted time, is immeasurably rich; the gratitude they will earn
from their fellow Crusaders, should they attain their aim, will be
profound and abiding.*

 

*However strenuous the task, however prolonged the effort, however
circumscribed their resources, let them remember that He Who guides,
animates and watches over the operations of this momentous,
world-embracing Crusade will, if they but play their part, abundantly
reinforce, through the outpourings of His Celestial strength, all those
battling for His Cause and will assure them a victory which He alone can
bestow.*

 

*That they may discharge nobly their task; that they may never allow, in
the course of the coming years, anything to deflect them from their high
purpose; that they may speedily and victoriously consummate the
immediate requirements of their Plan; and befittingly terminate the
first phase of their glorious Mission, in their capacity as associates
in the execution of the Design conceived by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is the object
of my constant prayers and one of the dearest wishes of my heart.*

 

> *Shoghi*


---



## 19 June 1953

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of South America

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters of June 23, July 22 and 30, August 7 and 16, September 2
and 3, October 25, 1952, and January 2 (2), January 14 (2), February 3,
March 11 and 20, April 24 and May 20, 1953 have been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.
The various enclosures you sent, as well as photographs and other
material sent separately, have also been safely received.

The progress in the work your Assembly has made during the past year has
pleased him very much, and he feels sure that a firm foundation has been
laid for the great tasks that lie ahead of you during the next ten
years.

He believes that the many trips made by members of your Assembly to
different centres stimulated the work, and brought about a greater
feeling of solidarity, and he hopes that this type of service can be
continued during the coming year, as much as proves feasible.

He was also very happy that you received your legal incorporation, which
is another milestone in the unfoldment of the Faith in South America.

The news you conveyed to him that one of the Bahá’ís had voluntarily
given up attending the South American Convention this year in order to
contribute the sum that he saved towards the passage of the Argentina
member of your Body to the United States, to attend the Intercontinental
Conference, greatly touched him. Please assure this friend that this
gesture of Bahá’í love and unity immensely pleased our beloved Guardian.

It was indeed wonderful that so many of the Latin friends and pioneers,
and members of the Central and South American Assemblies could be
present for the dedication of the Temple and could attend the
Intercontinental Teaching Conference. No doubt the inspiration gained
will be carried back and shared with all the believers at home, and a
new feeling of solidarity and oneness, a new confidence in the
never-failing aid of Bahá’u’lláh and a new sense of responsibility be
conveyed to the friends at home who did not have the privilege of being
present.

He considers it at the present time premature to make territorial
divisions so that groups and isolated believers can take part in the
election of delegates.

…

The Bahá’ís, in spite of the conditions prevailing in their country,
must make every effort to live up to the laws of Bahá’u’lláh. However,
the Guardian considers that your Assembly was quite right in the reply
it gave to the … Assembly, and that this believer should not have been
deprived of his voting rights but rather should be encouraged to settle
his affairs in a Bahá’í way and be given time to do so, and if he fails
he should be admonished and warned, and, only as a last recourse,
deprived of his voting rights.

He urges your Assembly to now turn its complete and undivided attention
to the all-important task of getting pioneers out to your nine virgin
fields; the pioneers can be drawn from the ranks of the South American
believers or may be volunteers from other countries, if available, who
will work for your Plan under your direction. The vital thing is to find
them and send them on their historic mission.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*The splendid record of service which has so greatly enriched the annals
of the Faith in the South American continent since the formation of the
South American National Assembly has truly rejoiced my heart, and has,
no doubt, evoked profound admiration and gratitude in the hearts of the
followers of the Faith in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. The
constancy with which the members of this Assembly have conducted their
manifold and ever-expanding activities; the zeal and fidelity they
displayed; the care and vigilance they have invariably shown in
safeguarding the interests of the Faith, in promoting its welfare, and
in consolidating its nascent institutions, deserve the highest praise. I
feel truly proud of the standard of their accomplishments, and am
confident that the quality and range of the work they have achieved
fully qualify them to undertake the vast, the sacred and urgent
responsibilities which it is their privilege to assume at this important
and vital stage in the unfoldment of their historic Mission.*

*As associates of the chief executors of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, the
members of the South American Bahá’í community have a great and splendid
task to perform. They are confronted with responsibilities that are at
once weighty, pressing and inescapable. They stand on the threshold of a
new Era marking the inauguration of their Mission beyond the borders of
their homelands. Their responsibilities, which are continually growing
as they themselves mature, are twofold. They must devote their attention
henceforth to both the multiplication and consolidation of the
institutions they have already established throughout the South American
Republics, and assiduously endeavour to implant the banner of the Faith
in the nine virgin territories and islands assigned to them as their
share in the prosecution of the decade-long world spiritual Crusade
recently launched by their fellow-believers throughout the world.*

*The first and foremost objective claiming their immediate attention is,
no doubt, the settlement, if possible ere the termination of the current
year, of pioneers in the nine virgin territories allocated to their
National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of their Ten Year
Plan, which constitutes a landmark of the utmost significance in the
evolution of the Faith in that continent. No sacrifice can be deemed too
great for the attainment of so noble and glorious an objective. The
resources of the community, meagre though they are, must be devoted
primarily to this end. The work, though arduous, and which must
challenge severely the spirit of the entire community, requires, no
doubt, utter consecration, extreme vigilance, devoted self-sacrifice and
the utmost constancy.*

*While this supreme objective is receiving the concentrated attention of
the elected representatives of this community, the no less vital task of
multiplying and consolidating the newly established Assemblies and
groups throughout the length and breadth of that vast continent must be
pursued with undiminished care, unswerving purpose and inflexible
resolve. For upon it will depend the early formation of independent
National Spiritual Assemblies in the Republics of the South American
continent. The prizes already won in that field must not only be
safeguarded, but every effort must be exerted to increase their number
through a steady multiplication of Spiritual Assemblies and a
corresponding increase in the number of groups and isolated centres,
which constitute the foundation of future National Assemblies to be
formed in the ten Republics of that continent.*

*As the site for the first Ma*sh*riqu’l-A*dh*kár of South America has
already been acquired in the capital city of Chile, the attention as
well as the resources of the members of the entire community must, in
the course of the present year, be focused upon the attainment of the
twin above-mentioned objectives — objectives which constitute the
distinctive features of the opening phase of the Ten Year Plan.*

*The field stretching before the members of this virile and promising
community is immense. Their responsibilities are unique and manifold.
The time at their disposal for the fulfilment of so meritorious a task
is limited and will swiftly pass. The blessings which the adequate
performance of such a task will bring in its wake are inestimable. Its
repercussions upon the immediate destinies of the Faith throughout Latin
America will be permanent and far-reaching.*

*The members of the South American Bahá’í community, who have
demonstrated already, in no small measure, the quality of their faith,
the degree of their devotion, the nobility of their purpose, the
excellence of their accomplishments, must now arise, at this crucial
hour, to ennoble the record of their unforgettable services to the Cause
of God, in some of the most promising countries in the new world,
constituting the southern outposts of the Faith in the Western
Hemisphere, by acts of unprecedented heroism which will excite the envy
and the admiration of all their fellow-labourers in the Divine Vineyard,
and which in the eyes of posterity will be considered as signalizing one
of the brilliant chapters in the history of the Faith in the South
American continent.*

*It is my earnest prayer and fondest hope that this community will
befittingly respond to the plea which I now address to them with all the
fervour of my heart, and will continue to labour with undimmed vision,
with unfaltering faith, with undiminished vigour and with incorruptible
loyalty, until the last objective of the Plan entrusted to its care will
have been fully attained.*

> *Shoghi*




---




## 14 June 1954 \[Peru\]

Miss Dorothy Campbell, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of South America

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your Assembly’s letters dated June 8, 11, 16 (2), 25 and 27, August 15,
September 7, October 1 and November 17 (3), 1953, and March 30 and
May 10, 1954, with their enclosures, also packages sent separately, have
all been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

 

He is very pleased to see the remarkable progress your Assembly has made
in settling its pioneer territories during the first year of the Ten
Year Crusade.

 

When one realizes that the organized work in Latin America is not even
two decades old, and that there are now two National Bodies in that
area; twenty National Bodies in prospect of formation ere the expiry of
another decade; that you have already acquired your Temple site (he
regrets the error in stating this situation was Santiago);[^1] that so
many members of your Community were able to visit the Intercontinental
Conference; that two of the dear Hands of the Cause made an extended
tour of the countries under your jurisdiction — when one contemplates all
these facts, one sees indeed the vitality of these newly-enrolled
believers in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, and the great promise for the
future that the work there holds.

 

It was a great pleasure to have one of the members of your Assembly,
Mrs. Fabienne Guillon, here as a pilgrim. Indeed the visit of the first
Chilean Bahá’í to Haifa was another landmark in the unfoldment of the
Faith throughout that region.

 

He does not consider it necessary for you to ask his permission before
enrolling any Oriental people as voting members. You should write your
Assemblies, and urge them to concentrate on teaching native Latin
Americans and Indians, and to ignore, as far as possible, Orientals,
without antagonizing them unduly.

 

In view of the situation prevailing in Dutch Guiana, he thinks that more
latitude could be allowed, but the pioneers there should be very careful
with Muslims, and be absolutely sure of the purity of their motive
before proceeding to teach them or to accept them.

 

He sees no objection to your pioneer teaching work for all your goals,
including one Asian territory, being carried out under the supervision
of the New Territories Committee. He does not think a separate committee
necessary for just one Asiatic country.

 

As regards your question of languages, the Guardian made out a general
list of languages for different parts of the globe, into which Bahá’í
literature was to be translated during the Ten Year Plan. He does not,
however, insist that every single one of these languages be used. If the
friends find out, through investigations on the subject, that one of
these languages is relatively insignificant, and another language much
more commonly spoken in that area, he does not object to a substitution
being made, though he would like, as a general principle, to have as few
substitutions made as possible.

 

He therefore approves of your translating literature into Quechua,
Aymará, Guaraní, and Araucano. A pamphlet is sufficient for the purpose,
but he advises you to use a substantial pamphlet, similar to the one
that the British National Assembly has been using throughout Africa for
African languages, and not something wholly insignificant.

 

He was very touched to hear of the manner in which Mr. José Ollino
embraced the Faith, assisted the Tormos in their pioneering, and passed
away under tragic circumstances. Surely such a soul is richly rewarded
in the world beyond. It seemed as if it was his destiny to be given this
great blessing of not only hearing of Bahá’u’lláh, but rendering Him a
service, before his life came to an end. The Guardian has prayed for him
in the holy Shrines.

 

He feels sure that, with the staunch and enthusiastic spirit of the body
of the believers throughout the Community under your jurisdiction, you
will go forward and accomplish great things during the present Bahá’í
year. The Bahá’ís must never be discouraged. They must look to their
blessings, and, confident of the unfailing support of Bahá’u’lláh,
persevere in the work of the Ten Year Crusade.

 

He will remember all the members of your Assembly in his prayers in the
holy Shrines, and will supplicate that the pioneers, the teachers and
the rank and file of the believers, may render ever greater services to
the Cause of God.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The South American Bahá’í Community, firmly established and steadily
consolidating itself, throughout so vast an area in the Western
Hemisphere, is now entering, at this crucial hour in the unfoldment of
the Ten Year Plan on which it has embarked, a period which bids fair to
eclipse all preceding periods since its inception more than fifteen
years ago. Its responsibilities have greatly multiplied, the scope of
its operations has considerably widened, and its share in the
prosecution of the world-wide tasks confronting the followers of the
Faith has notably increased.*

 

*The moment is appropriate for the members of this Community to pause
and call to mind the successive stages which have marked its inception
and development, and which constitute a shining episode in the evolution
of the Bahá’í Faith in the western world. The opening phase of this
mighty process may be said to have been ushered in by the response made
by the Heralds of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, during the closing years
of the Heroic Age of His Faith, and particularly by His exemplary and
consecrated handmaiden, Martha Root, to the call raised by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
and the settlement of the first Bahá’í pioneer in the city of Bahia.
This initial stage in the introduction of the Faith in the South
American continent was greatly accelerated, in the years following the
rise and establishment of the Administrative Order of the Faith in the
North American continent, through the operations of the First Seven Year
Plan, set in motion by the members of the North American Bahá’í
Community, for the purpose of establishing the basis of that same Order
throughout the Republics of Latin America. This far-reaching and highly
blessed enterprise was greatly reinforced by the initiation of yet
another Plan, which culminated in the emergence of the South American
Bahá’í National Assembly, an achievement that was worthily commemorated
in the course of the festivities celebrating the hundredth anniversary
of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Prophetic Mission. The formation of this
National Assembly was signalized by the adoption of various measures
elected by the representatives of the South American Bahá’í Community
and which yielded their fruit on the eve of those same festivities. This
period of internal consolidation was soon followed, on the morrow of
these world-wide celebrations, by the launching of a Ten Year Plan,
designed to lend a fresh impetus to the development of this Community,
and constituting its share of the spiritual Crusade launched by the
followers of the Faith in all continents of the globe.*

 

*The opening phase of this decade-long Plan inaugurated the Mission of
this newly consolidated Community beyond its homelands, and was brought
to a successful conclusion through the opening of every single virgin
territory assigned, in accordance with that same Plan, to this
Community.*

 

*This notable success, achieved by the South American believers — a
success which posterity will regard as a milestone of great significance
in the history of the Faith in those regions — must, at this hour when the
second phase of this historic Plan is opening, be followed up by still
greater victories within the confines of the South American Republics,
enhancing thereby the prestige of this Community and hastening the
formation of an independent National Spiritual Assembly in each of these
Republics.*

 

*Whilst careful attention is being paid to the preservation of the
prizes won in the newly opened nine territories in the American and
Asiatic continents, a special effort must be exerted for the
multiplication of Bahá’í centres and for the formation of Local
Assemblies in each of the South American Republics, for the sole purpose
of broadening and reinforcing the foundations on which future
independent National Spiritual Assemblies must be raised. A swift
increase in the number of the avowed supporters of the Faith,
particularly of those belonging to the Indian race, is yet another
responsibility which the prosecutors of the Plan must courageously face
and nobly discharge. Prompt measures should moreover be taken for the
purchase, in the city of Lima, of a building which need not be
pretentious, that will serve as the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds of the present South
American National Assembly, and will be regarded as the national
administrative headquarters of the future National Spiritual Assembly of
the Republic of Peru; and will herald the establishment of similar
institutions for the remaining South American Republics. The
establishment of Bahá’í endowments in that same city should likewise be
speedily inaugurated. Every assistance must moreover be extended to the
United States National Spiritual Assembly in hastening the translation
and publication of Bahá’í Literature in the Indian languages assigned to
that Assembly. The translation, publication and dissemination of Bahá’í
Literature must be carried on, uninterruptedly and with ever-increasing
vigour, in both the Spanish and Portuguese languages. The process of
incorporating Local Spiritual Assemblies must be continually reinforced,
as one of the most effective means for the consolidation of the entire
Community. The establishment of a Bahá’í Publishing Trust must be
undertaken in the city of Rio de Janeiro in conformity with the
principles laid down by the British National Assembly for their
Publishing Trust. Nor must the elected representatives of this Community
neglect their supreme responsibility to safeguard the spiritual life of
its members, to continually enrich that life by every means in their
power, to deepen their grasp of the distinguishing features and the
fundamental verities of the Bahá’í Faith, and to encourage and inspire
them to reflect its spirit and precepts in their personal lives and
conduct.*

 

*May this Community, which, ever since its inception, has shown such
promise, and which, in recent years, has achieved so notable a success
both at home and abroad, continue, with undiminished consecration, the
task which it has so resolutely shouldered, and enhance, in the days to
come, the enviable record which will ever remain associated with the
opening years of its existence,*

 

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*



---


## 24 June 1954 \[Panama\]

Mr. Esteban Canales, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of Central America

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

The letters of your National Body dated June 17, July 3 (2), 7, 8 and
19, and October 10, 1953, January 25 and May 1, 1954, with enclosures,
have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

 

He was extremely pleased that your Assembly was able to purchase the
site for the Bahá’í Temple in Panama before the expiration of the first
year of the Ten Year Crusade. He advises your Assembly, while
safeguarding and maintaining the property, and living up to the terms of
the contract which you signed, to spend as little money on the site as
possible. Your resources are too limited, and the needs in the teaching
field are too urgent, for money other than for the purpose of the
purchase and bare maintenance of the property to be spent on the Temple
site, at the present time. The important thing was to buy it, and this
has been satisfactorily accomplished.

 

He is also very proud of the fact that Central America has filled all
her pioneer goals with the exception of the Marshall Islands, to which
Mrs. Steward is now en route.

 

He has read with attention the consolidation plan prepared by the
National Teaching Executive Committee, a copy of which you forwarded to
him in your most recent letter; and, although he thinks that the general
outline of activities is excellent, there are two points to which he
would like to call your attention.

 

The first is that he has not decided that there will be definitely no
Regional National Assemblies prior to the establishment of independent
National Assemblies for each Latin American country. As the work unfolds
and the centres multiply, this matter will have to be carefully
considered. At present it is premature to reach any conclusions.

 

He also believes that, before any abolition of the present basis of
electing delegates to the National Convention (in other words, the
delegates represent Assemblies, and not Groups and isolated believers as
well) is made, the Cause must grow much stronger in each of the Central
American republics.

 

Perhaps your Assembly is not aware of the fact that, with the exception
of the United States and Persia, the two countries where the mass of the
believers is the greatest in the Bahá’í world, all other National
Assemblies are elected by delegates who are elected in their turn by
Local Assemblies, and not by the body of the believers residing in any
particular country.

 

He considers the introduction of the latter system premature in Latin
America. You must first have many more active Groups and isolated
centres, before there is any point in calling a National Convention, and
directly electing the national delegates for the Central American
Convention by the method used in the United States at present.

 

This is one of the reasons why he is urging the Bahá’ís everywhere to,
above all, concentrate on increasing the number of Spiritual Assemblies
and Groups, as well as isolated believers, educating them more deeply in
the administrative and spiritual fundamentals and doctrines of the
Faith, and increasing their awareness of their great responsibility as
Bahá’ís in both the teaching and administrative work of the Faith. He
always considers that, until the foundation is securely laid, there
should be no attempt at elaborating the superstructure.

This principle applies everywhere, and he does not yet think that the
administrative foundation is secure enough in Latin America (and indeed
in many other countries) to permit of any elaboration of the present
methods which he has outlined for the friends to follow.

He hopes that the Auxiliary Board, working in conjunction with the Hands
of the Cause, will be able to carry a new impetus to the teaching work,
and, in collaboration with the National Assemblies, help to strengthen
and revitalize weak centres.

…

Another matter to which he attaches the greatest importance is that of
keeping the pioneers at their posts, and urging upon them the necessity
of persevering *at* *all* *costs*, lest one of the so hardly-won goals
of the Ten Year Crusade suffer even a momentary eclipse.

 

Your Assembly must feel very proud of the fact that a number of its
members have gone into the pioneer field. The National Assembly must
always show forth signs of true spiritual leadership; and he is very
happy that your Body is so active, so devoted and so united.

 

He hopes that, in the unfoldment of your work throughout that region,
you will pay special attention to teaching the Indians and minority
groups, and converting them to the Faith. He attaches the greatest
importance to this work, and is always glad to receive news of the names
of any new Indian tribes represented in the Cause of God, or contacted.

 

It was a great pleasure to have the Chairman of your Assembly here as a
pilgrim, after the New Delhi Conference. Indeed, who would have
believed, a few years ago, that representatives from both Central and
South America would attend an Intercontinental Teaching Conference in
New Delhi, the other side of the world, and then come, bearing the love
and devotion of their co-workers in distant parts of the New World, to
the World Centre, as pilgrims? He is sure that this direct contact will
link your Assembly even closer to the World Centre here.

 

You may be sure that, in his visits to the holy Shrines, he remembers
you all most lovingly in his prayers, and supplicates that the dear
Bahá’ís of Central America will become ever more active, more
courageous, more self-sacrificing and more spiritually aware of their
great calling.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. The Guardian considers that the National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in each of
the Latin American countries, which must be established in conformity
with the provisions of the Ten Year Plan, should be a building owned by
the Bahá’ís. It does not have to be erected by them especially for this
purpose. It can be a piece of property either bought by them, or donated
by some believer to the Faith for this purpose.

 

> The same applies to a local Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds. If it is a rented room or
> hall, it is to be designated as the Bahá’í Centre. When it is owned by
> the friends, it must be called the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds.

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The Central American Bahá’í Community, occupying so pivotal a position
in the heart of the Western Hemisphere, stands, at this hour, marking at
once the termination of the opening phase of the Bahá’í World Spiritual
Crusade and the commencement of the second period in its unfoldment, on
the threshold of an epoch of glorious expansion, both within its
homeland as well as in foreign fields.*

 

*Its members can do no better than to recall, at this juncture, with
joyous gratitude, the series of historic events which have led, in the
course of almost four decades, to its gradual emergence, its rapid rise
and steady consolidation. The epoch-making travels of some of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s disciples, headed by the incomparable Martha Root, during
the concluding years of the Heroic, and the opening decade of the
Formative, Age of the Faith, in response to the Call raised by the
Centre of the Covenant in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, may be
regarded as the prelude to the formal and definite introduction of the
Faith in that vast and prominent region. These preliminary years of
widespread and strenuous seed sowing paved the way, on the morrow of the
establishment of the framework of the Administrative Order of the Faith
in the Western Hemisphere, for the launching of the First Seven Year
Plan formulated by the American Bahá’í Community, which culminated in
the laying of the Administrative foundations of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh
in the Republics of Central America and the Antilles. This initial stage
in the rise and establishment of the embryonic World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh in the Heart of the Western Hemisphere was immediately
followed by the initiation of yet another Plan which attained its
climax, on the morrow of the centenary of the Báb’s Martyrdom, through
the formation of the Central American Bahá’í National Spiritual
Assembly — an auspicious event that was befittingly celebrated in the
course of the festivities commemorating the centenary of the birth of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission. This notable and unforgettable event in the
annals of the Faith in the New World was destined to be succeeded by the
launching of a small Plan albeit carefully devised by the newly launched
National Spiritual Assembly and which culminated in those same never to
be forgotten festivities.*

 

*The launching of this Plan was in itself a prelude to the initiation of
a Ten Year Plan, formulated to meet the immediate needs of the Central
American Bahá’í Community, in conjunction with a spiritual Crusade
embarked upon by national Bahá’í communities throughout the entire
globe.*

 

*The opening phase of this Ten Year Plan, which may be said to have
inaugurated the Mission of this same Community beyond its homelands, has
now drawn to a close, a year that has witnessed the opening, with a
single exception, of all the virgin territories assigned, in accordance
with that same Plan, to this Community.*

 

*This great victory, in which the followers of the Faith in Central
America have themselves played a notable part, and which has virtually
set the seal of triumph on the initial stage of this glorious Crusade,
must, at this hour of the unfoldment of the second phase of this
historic enterprise, prove in turn a forerunner of a period of
unprecedented, rapid and systematic expansion and consolidation of the
Faith in each of the Republics of Central America and of the Antilles.*

 

*Whilst every effort must be strenuously exerted to safeguard at any
cost the prizes won in the six newly opened territories in the American
and Asiatic continents, attention must, in the course of the present
year, be focused on the multiplication of Bahá’í centres, and on the
formation of Local Assemblies, in order to broaden the foundations on
which future independent National Spiritual Assemblies must ultimately
rest. A no less assiduous effort should be exerted to increase rapidly
the number of the avowed supporters of the Faith, particularly among the
Indians, whose spiritual potentialities ‘Abdu’l-Bahá repeatedly
emphasized. Steps should moreover be taken to ensure the prompt purchase
in the city of Panama of a modest property that will serve as the
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds of the present Central American National Assembly and
the national administrative headquarters of the future National
Spiritual Assembly of the Republic of Panama, and which will set in
motion the process of the purchase of similar properties designed to
serve as administrative headquarters for the future independent National
Assemblies in that area. A beginning must also be made in the
establishment of Bahá’í endowments in that city. Simultaneously measures
should be speedily undertaken to assist the United States National
Assembly in expediting the translation and publication of Bahá’í
Literature in the Indian languages specifically mentioned in the
provisions of the Ten Year Plan. No effort should moreover be spared in
assisting the South American National Spiritual Assembly in the
all-important work of translating, printing and disseminating Bahá’í
Literature in both the Spanish and Portuguese languages. Particular
attention should likewise be devoted to the acceleration of the process
of local Bahá’í Incorporation, so vital to the further consolidation of
the newly emerged administrative institutions of the Faith in Central
America and the Antilles.*

 

*As the process of internal expansion and consolidation gains momentum,
the elected national representatives of this Community must not fail to
consecrate themselves to the no less fundamental task of enriching
continually the spiritual life of its members, of deepening their
understanding of the essential verities, tenets and principles
underlying their Faith, of demanding a strict adherence to its laws and
statutes, and of setting an example to their fellow-believers through a
fuller reflection, in their personal lives and conduct, of the ennobling
truths animating the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.*

 

*May this Community which, in the course of over a decade, has
demonstrated so conspicuously its devotion to the ideals of the Faith it
has risen to champion, furnish, as the years roll by, further proofs of
its staunchness, its courage, its fidelity, its watchfulness, its
single-mindedness and unswerving determination to fulfil its high
destiny through the attainment of every single objective of the Plan to
which it stands committed.*

 

> *Your true brother,*
> *Shoghi*

---


## 13 July 1955 \[Peru\]

Miss Dorothy Campbell, Secretary
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of South America

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letters of October 7th and December 6, 1954, May 17, June 7 and 9,
1955, as well as June 22nd, with enclosures have been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was very happy to hear that our dear friends, Mrs. Beecher and
Mr. Baker, have arrived in the British West Indies to take up their
pioneer duties which were so dear to the heart of the Hand of the Cause,
Dorothy Baker. He feels sure that their activities will greatly
reinforce the work, and strengthen the Faith in that area.

 

He hopes your Assembly is doing all in its power to encourage the
pioneers who have left their homes and gone out to neighbouring
territories and islands under your jurisdiction. At all costs, these
precious goals must be kept open and the work strengthened. This is the
primary duty of your Assembly. In preparation for a greater degree of
administrative responsibility in the near future, the Assemblies in the
far-flung area over which you have jurisdiction should exert their
utmost to strengthen their own foundations, to carry on extension
teaching work in nearby centres, and to encourage any surplus members
they may have — by “surplus”, the Guardian means any number over
fifteen — (providing the Assembly is firmly established) to go out and
pioneer in new centres, or reinforce existing groups and assist in the
creation of the greatly-needed future Spiritual Assemblies.

 

The literature in Portuguese, he trusts, is being speedily expanded, as
well as that in Spanish; and he urges your Assembly to bear in mind that
shortly National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds will be needed in each country, and
that the friends should begin to look about for suitable Centres that
will under no circumstances be too expensive, nor too far out from the
centre of the city.

 

The Central and South American National Assemblies, in conjunction with
their parent Body, the American National Spiritual Assembly, must
ever-increasingly assume a greater degree of responsibility for the
conduct of the Bahá’í affairs in the Western Hemisphere. The Guardian’s
own work is steadily increasing, due to the wonderful expansion of the
Faith all over the world; and National Assemblies must shoulder their
full portion of work and responsibility, and thus assist him in lifting
the heavy load of the Faith, a treasured and precious load!

 

He will remember you all in his prayers in the holy Shrines, and
supplicate that you may be guided and blessed in your endeavours. He
deeply appreciates your services for the Faith and the spirit that
animates you.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. Both groups and Assemblies in virgin areas should be very careful
regarding publicity lest they arouse opposition and risk losing the
hard-won goals so recently and painstakingly achieved.

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The activities which the South American believers, under the guidance
and through the impetus given by your Assembly to the forward march of
the Faith in the South American Republics, have achieved in recent years
constitutes a notable chapter in the history of the marvellous
unfoldment of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh in Latin America. These
successive historic achievements, in both the teaching and
administrative spheres of Bahá’í service, may well be regarded as a
befitting prelude to the opening of yet another chapter in the annals of
the Faith in the South American continent — a chapter that will
commemorate the emergence of Regional as well as independent National
Assemblies which are destined, first indirectly and later directly, to
play their part in the ultimate formation of the Supreme Legislative
Body in the Bahá’í world — the International House of Justice.*

 

*The work initiated throughout the virgin territories assigned, under
the Ten Year Plan, to your Assembly has been successfully accomplished
and is indeed highly meritorious in the sight of God. The first national
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds of South America has been purchased. The land on which
the first Ma*sh*riqu’l-A*dh*kár in that continent is destined to be
erected has already been acquired through the spontaneous and generous
action of one of the South American believers long before the initiation
of the Ten Year Plan. The translation and publication of Bahá’í
literature in both the Spanish and Portuguese tongues has been
vigorously undertaken and merits the highest praise.*

 

*Though much has been accomplished in these spheres of Bahá’í activity,
the work that still remains to be undertaken, prior to the emergence of
the Regional National Assemblies of South America, is enormous and
highly challenging. Time indeed is very short. A brief span of less than
two years separates the South American Bahá’í Communities from the
historic and shining goals they have set themselves to attain.*

 

*A systematic effort of unexampled intensity, at once sustained and
consecrated, must needs be exerted on the part of individuals, groups
and Local and National Assemblies, in order to befittingly pave the way
for the convocation of the forthcoming memorable Bahá’í Conventions and
the subsequent election of the pivotal institutions that are to presage
the definite establishment of the pillars of the Universal House of
Justice in the South American continent.*

 

*A rapid increase in the number of the avowed supporters of the Faith in
every Republic of South America; a marked multiplication of groups, and
particularly of Local Assemblies, in each of these Republics; the
maintenance, at any cost, of those already functioning; a notable
acceleration in the process of the incorporation of definitely
established Local Spiritual Assemblies; the speedy purchase of the nine
remaining National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds throughout the South American
continent; the establishment of national endowments in each of the South
American Republics; a notable advancement in the process of translating
and publishing Bahá’í literature into American Indian languages,
particularly those specified in the Ten Year Plan; the preservation and
enhancement of the rich prizes so swiftly won in distant and virgin
areas of the globe; the establishment of the Bahá’í Publishing Trust in
the city of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil — these must be accounted as the most
pressing and challenging tasks confronting the valiant South American
Bahá’í Communities in these crucial years — tasks which demand, on the
part of individuals, groups and Assemblies, the utmost vigilance,
unrelaxing resolution, constant and utter consecration, steady
co-operation and exemplary self-sacrifice.*

 

*The ordeal which our loved, long-suffering, steadfast brethren in the
cradle of our Faith are now experiencing should spur on every would-be
Bahá’í Crusader to rise to still nobler heights of heroism, to evince a
still higher degree of courage, a greater self-abnegation, and a more
whole-hearted dedication to the ideals, principles and purposes of our
precious Faith, to the objectives of the stupendous global Crusade its
adherents have launched, to the institutions its Founder has ordained,
and to the Plan which the authorized Interpreter of its teachings has
conceived.*

 

*The eyes of the world are now upon those who bear the Bahá’í name. Its
redoubtable foes fondly cherish the foolish hope of a decline in its
fortunes and of its ultimate extinction. Our oppressed brethren cry out
in their distress to the more privileged among their co-workers to arise
and compensate for the loss they have sustained.*

 

*Now is the time to display, in a never-to-be-forgotten way, those
sterling qualities that will unmistakably proclaim, to foes and sceptics
alike, the incorruptible grandeur of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, and
demonstrate the enduring verities on which it has been founded, and the
creative, the regenerating and irresistible power which has brought it
into being, which has sustained it to the present day, and which will,
no doubt, continue to impel it forward until its destiny has been fully
consummated.*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

15 July 1955

Mr. Esteban Canales, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the

> Bahá’ís of Central America

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

The beloved Guardian has received letters dated May 29, October 18,
November 9 with enclosure, and December 12, 1954, and January 8 and 28,
1955, some written by you as Secretary and some by the Chairman of your
Assembly.

He is very happy to see that your Assembly is facing, with a spirit of
unity and determination, the tasks that lie ahead of it; and he feels
sure that with confidence, consecration and enthusiasm, you will be able
to lead the believers whom you represent, to victory in attaining the
goals of their part of the Ten Year Plan.

He noted that you are being very vigilant in protecting the good name of
the Faith from any association with political parties and the general
political unrest in that area. The non-interference of the Bahá’ís in
political matters cannot be too strongly emphasized. Any side-taking can
jeopardize their status as members of a World Faith, seeking to bring
about the unity of the entire human race, and peace on earth.

Recent events in that region have clearly demonstrated how unstable the
affairs of men are; and that the only hope for the future lies in
furthering the affairs of God, in other words, His Cause for this day.
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, Our party is God’s party — we don’t belong to any
party.

The Guardian considers that at present it is premature to reconsider the
basis of apportioning Bahá’í delegates. They must be elected by the
Local Assemblies as heretofore. The thing for the friends to recognize
is that, if they have a share in electing the National Assembly or not,
the most important thing is to teach the Cause; the administrative
functions are only a means to this end. Everyone can teach the Cause,
and should teach it, regardless of whether he votes, or is elected or
functions on a Committee.

As regards your question about giving the Faith publicity, in the places
that pioneers have moved to in order to fill the goals of the Plan: It
depends on the place. If there is absolutely no danger of publicity
stirring up antagonism, or leading to the expulsion of the Bahá’í or his
being deprived of his residence visa, then there is no objection to
publicity. The general principle, however, is this — that the Bahá’ís
should keep as quiet as possible, seek out and confirm the receptive
souls, and build their future Assemblies on a solid foundation. To
broadcast the news of their activities is not essential in these virgin
areas at the present time, and can in most cases be dangerous, and
hinder the spread of the Faith.

As regards your question about consolidation: He interprets this to mean
that the important Centres that have already been established, at so
much cost of time and sacrifice, should be maintained, and the
Assemblies not allowed to fall back into Group status; the Groups
increased until they can become Assemblies; and the requisite number of
Spiritual Assemblies created, before the end of the Ten Year Plan. In
other words, ground should not be lost, but should be maintained and
steadily gained.

He urges your Assembly to bear in mind that shortly National
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds will be needed in each country, and that the friends
should begin to look about for suitable Centres that will under no
circumstances be too expensive, nor too far out from the centre of the
city.

He was delighted to see that, following speedily upon the purchase of
the Panama Temple site, the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds of the Bahá’ís of Central
America has also been acquired.

He is very proud of your achievements, and of the response you have met
with from the Bahá’ís. He feels sure that, with sufficient effort and
determination on the part of all, great strides forward will be made
during the coming year.

He assures you that he will remember you in his prayers in the holy
Shrines; and he deeply appreciates all that you have accomplished, and
the spirit that animates you.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Since commencing the above letter, the beloved Guardian has
received your other letters dated April 9 (two), and April 12 and May
14.

> He was very happy to know that you have increased the holdings of the
> Temple property in Panama. Please thank ... on his behalf for this
> generous act on her part, an act which will be appreciated
> increasingly as time goes on and the Temple itself is erected.
>
> As the Guardian has already sent a Message to all Conventions, he does
> not feel it necessary to make any exceptions and send special messages
> to different ones. Indeed the pressure of work here at the
> International Centre is now so great, through the marvellous expansion
> of the Cause all over the world, that it is becoming increasingly
> impossible for him to communicate with so many Centres directly in
> separate messages.

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*The year which has just been concluded has witnessed a succession of
achievements on the part of the members of the Central American Bahá’í
Communities, and particularly of the elected body of their national
representatives, worthy of the highest commendation. In both the
teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity, these
newly-fledged Communities have demonstrated their firm attachment to the
Faith they have espoused, their loyalty to its fundamental verities and
principles, and their inflexible resolve to extend the range and
reinforce the foundations of their collective and meritorious activities
and achievements.*

*They are now, by virtue of the splendid services they have performed,
the spirit they have so powerfully evinced, the noble example they have
set, approaching a stage in the evolution of the Faith in that highly
promising area of the globe, which bids fair to eclipse the magnificent
efforts which have been exerted, and the noteworthy services which have
been performed, since its inception in the Antilles and the Central
American Republics. They will soon be entering a period which is
destined to witness the emergence of Regional National Assemblies which
are to be regarded as stepping-stones, paving the way for the ultimate
establishment of independent National Spiritual Assemblies, which are
destined to act as pillars, and participate directly in the formation,
of the future International House of Justice, ordained by Bahá’u’lláh as
the supreme Legislative Organ of His World Order.*

*Now is the time for these Communities to prepare themselves, in the
course of the two fast-fleeting years separating them from the opening
of the third phase of a World Spiritual Crusade, individually as well as
collectively, to assume befittingly the staggering responsibilities so
soon to be placed upon them.*

*They have, thus far, discharged their task with befitting courage, zeal
and loyalty. The foundation they have securely laid must now be both
enlarged and strengthened. The virgin areas of the globe, assigned to
their elected representatives, under the Ten Year Plan, have been
triumphantly and speedily opened. The translation and publication of the
literature of the Faith into both the Spanish and Portuguese tongues
have been vigorously undertaken. The plot whereon the first
Ma_shriqu’l-A_dhkár of Central America must needs be erected has been
purchased in the Republic of Panama, the importance of which has been so
clearly stressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The first two of the historic National
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds that are to be established in the capital cities of the
Republics of Central America and the Islands of the Antilles have been
acquired. A beginning has been made in the translation of Bahá’í
literature into the American Indian languages spoken in those regions.*

*The tasks, now confronting them in the course of this current year and
of the next, demand a still greater exertion on their part, a more
complete dedication to the aims, purposes and principles of their Faith,
a firmer resolve to achieve the immediate goals of their Ten Year Plan,
and a still nobler self-sacrifice in the path of the Cause they have
espoused and championed.*

*The two crucial years, constituting the concluding year of the second,
and the opening year of the third, phase of the Ten Year Plan must be
signalized, if they would prove themselves worthy of their stewardship
to their Faith, by a series of achievements much more conspicuous than
those that have distinguished the opening years in the annals of that
Faith in Central America and the Antilles.*

*The number of the avowed adherents of the Faith must, throughout that
area, be speedily and substantially increased. Simultaneously a notable
multiplication of groups and Assemblies must be ensured in order to
enlarge and reinforce the foundations of the forthcoming Regional
National Assemblies. The incorporation of firmly established Local
Spiritual Assemblies must likewise be expedited. The prizes won in
distant and virgin fields must not only be preserved but continually
enhanced. The translation of Bahá’í literature into the American Indian
languages assigned under the Ten Year Plan must also be energetically
prosecuted. The establishment of national endowments throughout that
area must be, moreover, diligently undertaken and rapidly carried out.
Above all, the purchase of National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in the remaining
Republics of Central America and the Antilles must, ere the conclusion
of the second year of the second phase of the Ten Year Plan, be
consummated.*

*Then, and only then, can the Central American Bahá’í Communities, that
have won such superb victories in the past, confidently assume the
sacred burden of responsibility incumbent upon them in the course of the
third phase of this world-encircling Crusade. Then, and only then, can
they demonstrate to the Bahá’í world their capacity to carry out in its
entirety their share in ensuring the triumphant conclusion of this
world-wide enterprise launched by the valiant upholders of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh.*

*The tribulations now experienced by their brethren in the land of its
birth should, far from crushing their spirit or dampening the zeal which
animates them, infuse into them fresh courage and a more determined
resolve to arise and compensate for the loss which the Cause is now
sustaining. Individually as well as collectively, in their capacity as
teachers and administrators, they should prove by their conduct the
world-redeeming capacity of their Faith, demonstrate its incorruptible
spirit, proclaim the sublimity of its teachings, and silence the
criticism of its opponents.*

*Theirs is a glorious opportunity which they must not, in these days of
test and trial, neglect. Theirs is a sacred duty which they must
befittingly discharge. May they arise as one man, and, armed with the
invincible power of Bahá’u’lláh, play their part in a manner that will
bring everlasting consolation to the hearts of their persecuted
brethren, and dishearten throughly those redoubtable adversaries who are
so artfully and persistently labouring to undermine its foundations and
extinguish its light.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 November 1955 \[Peru\]

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of South America

c/o Miss Dorothy Campbell, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving letter of October 18th was duly received and presented to
the beloved Guardian.

The Guardian feels that the instructions issued concerning membership in
the Masonic lodges in the British Isles and the United States must
likewise apply to membership in Freemasonry in South America. He has in
mind of course his previous letter, in which he indicated that the
National Assembly should have patience with Bahá’ís who have been
Masons, Rosicrucians, Theosophists, etc. and they should be gradually
weaned away from these former attachments.

The Guardian now feels that the friends must gradually give up these
previous beliefs, and become firm and vigorous Bahá’ís, endeavouring to
establish and spread the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. He therefore feels
that your Assembly should take this matter in hand, to see that the
friends gradually give up their attachment to their previous beliefs,
including membership in the Masonic lodges.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf, and sends you
his loving greetings.

> Faithfully yours,
>
> Leroy Ioas

29 June 1956 \[Peru\]

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of South America

Care of Miss Dorothy Campbell, Secretary

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letters of June 13, July 12, October 13, November 11 and
November 16, 1955, and January 11, May 15 (two) and June 5th 1956, with
enclosures have all been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The news received at Convention time of the marked progress of the Faith
throughout South America, and the encouraging increase in centres, as
well as the formation of new Assemblies, greatly cheered his heart, and
exceeded his fond expectations of the nature of the report he might be
getting from your Assembly, on the occasion of the beginning of the new
Bahá’í administrative year.

 

He is indeed proud of the labours of the friends; and feels confident
that, with such a spirit, and with this ever-increasing zeal and
devotion which they are manifesting, they will be able to attain all
their objectives, and, by the end of the Ten Year Crusade, have laid a
truly firm and lasting foundation for the new national bodies which must
be elected to represent the Bahá’ís of each Republic of South America.

 

No force is as important in spreading the Faith and carrying forward the
teaching work as unity amongst the friends. When they co-operate with
each other to achieve their objectives, they receive divine inspiration
and assistance, which otherwise would be denied them. Unity is like a
mirror, which attracts the rays of the sun of God’s bounty.

 

The very generous gift which … has made of some land constituting the
national endowment for Chile was deeply appreciated, as well as the
correspondingly generous and loving gift of …, made for the same purpose
in Brazil. He would like your Assembly to please thank these dear
friends on his behalf for their constant devotion to the Faith and their
generosity in helping to create its institutions.

 

The news of the arrival of so many Persian immigrants in Brazil augurs
well for the development of new centres in that country. He feels that
your Assembly should urge these Bahá’ís to settle as families or groups
in new cities, where they form a nucleus of new Spiritual Assemblies,
and not to congregate in the centres where there are already Assemblies.

 

It was a great pleasure to him to receive a member of the South American
National Assembly as his guest here in Haifa, and to feel this renewed
contact through the pilgrims with the believers of Latin America.

 

The remarkable progress which has been made in the purchase of the
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds for the different South American Republics, as well as
the commencement in obtaining the endowments for each of these
Republics, has encouraged him greatly; and he feels sure that these
buildings will be a rallying-point for the Bahá’ís, and inspire them and
help them in their teaching work, as well as attracting the attention of
the public to the Faith.

 

As regards the question you asked him about whether Nengre, which has
already been translated, may be substituted for Arawak, he approves of
this in view of the fact that there is no written language for Arawak.
If the believers find that there are any other languages in common use
amongst the indigenous population in South America, they could choose
one of these as a substitute for Arawak, and thereby add an additional
language to those chosen under the Ten Year Plan. He leaves this matter
to the discretion of your Assembly.

 

He hopes that, during the coming year, the Bahá’ís labouring in South
America will, encouraged by the sight of the feats they have
accomplished already, forge ahead on the teaching front and establish
many new centres and Assemblies.

 

His loving prayers and thoughts will be offered on their behalf and for
all of you on the National Body who are so arduously and conscientiously
toiling to lay the foundations of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order in that
important continent of the globe.

 

As regards the question about spiritualism, the Guardian does not feel
that this is the time for him to make any special statement on this
subject. Visiting teachers and the National Body must make every effort
to wean the friends away from these practices, but we must not make too
much of an issue of it at the moment. There are more important things
for the friends to concentrate their attention upon, namely, the
establishment of new Assemblies and groups.

 

Your letter of June 5th has also been received and the Guardian wishes
me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

 

> He assures you all of his most loving prayers for your success.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The remarkable expansion of the activities of the South American Bahá’í
Community, both at home, and in the territories assigned to it, in
accordance with the provisions of the Ten Year Plan, particularly during
the last twelve months, has been highly encouraging, and has served to
deepen my admiration for the devotion of its members to the Faith and my
confidence in their ultimate success. The Community now stands on the
threshold of a new era in the evolution of the Faith in Latin America.
The rapidity with which the nascent institutions of a divinely appointed
Order have developed, first under the direct supervision of the United
States National Assembly, and, in later years, under the guidance of
your Assembly, has paved the way for the opening of such a glorious
Chapter in the history of the Faith in Latin America. The loyalty of the
members of this Community, their high and persistent endeavours, their
inflexible resolve, their vigilance, perseverance, and self-sacrifice
have, no doubt, hastened the attainment of such a landmark in the
evolution of the Cause of God in that continent. I truly marvel at the
vastness of the work accomplished, the multiplicity of the activities
which have been initiated, the steady consolidation of the institutions
that have been created, the increasing maturity of the rank and file of
the believers, their unity and solidarity, and the growing evidences of
their ability to conduct, independently and efficiently, the affairs of
the Faith, and to carry it a stage further along the road leading to its
eventual triumph and the fulfilment of its high destiny.*

 

*Particularly gratifying has been the success that has attended, in the
course of the past year, the exertions of your Assembly to multiply the
institutions of the Faith, to establish its administrative centres, to
purchase its endowments, to swell the number of its supporters, to
enlarge both the local and national Funds designed to support its
institutions, to expand its literature, and consolidate the foundations
laid by its pioneers. The Concourse on high cannot but applaud such
vigorous action, such concerted effort, such selfless devotion, such
dogged perseverance, such fidelity to the wishes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
such unwavering determination to achieve their part of the global task
entrusted to His loved ones under the Ten Year Plan.*

 

*Though much has been achieved, in divers fields of Bahá’í activity, the
year destined to usher in this highly promising era, which is to witness
the erection of the pillars of the Universal House of Justice in that
vast continent, must needs witness a still greater consecration on the
part of the South American believers, young and old of both sexes,
whether veterans or newly enrolled, at home as well as in the newly
opened territories, in both the teaching and administrative fields, and
in spite of any obstacles, however formidable, that may stand in their
way.*

 

*As the day approaches when the long-awaited provisional Regional
Assemblies will have emerged, an effort, on the part of each and all
members of this valiant, this firmly established, great-hearted,
high-minded Community, more determined and consecrated than ever before;
a spirit of heroism nobler than any that has thus far been displayed; a
courage more inspiring than that which has animated them thus far; and a
self-abnegation unsurpassed since the inception of the Faith in Latin
America, must needs be displayed, in order to adequately meet the
challenge of the mountainous tasks that are to be faced in the future,
and to discharge befittingly the responsibilities which are soon to
confront them.*

 

*The multiplication of isolated centres, groups and Assemblies must,
meanwhile, continue unabated. The process of the incorporation of Local
Assemblies must not be allowed to lag. The establishment of Bahá’í
endowments must be speeded up. The efforts exerted to enrol a great
number of American Indians under the banner of the Faith must be
redoubled. The translation of Bahá’í literature into the Spanish, the
Portuguese and the Indian languages must be given a tremendous impetus.
The newly opened territories, won over at the cost of so much sacrifice,
must, under no circumstances, be jeopardized, but rather should be
closely watched and consolidated. The number of the adherents of the
Faith must be considerably increased and given first priority by your
Assembly. Above all, the spirit animating its avowed supporters must,
through every possible means, be fortified, and enriched.*

 

*The South American Bahá’í Community, through the qualities it exhibits,
the acts it has performed, the strides it has made, the fame it has won,
ranks high amongst its sister communities both in the Western Hemisphere
and throughout the Bahá’í world.*

 

*The Author of the Cause it serves so diligently and devotedly is well
pleased with the range of the exertions of this Community, the victories
it has successively won, the bright prospects now opening before it. His
manifold blessings will, no doubt, be fully and unreservedly vouchsafed
to its members, without exception, if they but persevere along the path
they have chosen to tread.*

 

*I will, in my admiration for their high endeavours, for their
extraordinary progress, and their enduring achievements, continue to
pray for them all, with redoubled ardour, that they may, in the days to
come, march to victory, and enrich immeasurably the annals of God’s
Cause in that highly promising continent.*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 June 1956 \[Panama\]

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Central America

Care of Mr. Esteban Canales L., Secretary

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letters of October 28, 1955 and January 5, 1956, with enclosures,
have been received by the beloved Guardian; and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

 

He has been made very happy over the news of the progress of the Faith
throughout Latin America during the past year. Especially the purchase
of all of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds and the commencement in obtaining the
national endowments have been very encouraging, and show that the
believers are full of vitality and determination. He feels sure that
these buildings will be a rallying-point for the local communities, and
a marked asset in teaching the Faith to the public. He hopes that,
during the coming year, every Central American Republic will have its
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds and its national endowment; and that there will be a
tremendous increase in the number of Bahá’ís, groups and Assemblies,
throughout the area under the jurisdiction of your Assembly.

 

The friends must be made to realize that the increase of Assemblies, in
other words, teaching work, is the most important of their activities,
because on the achievements in this field must rest the foundations of
the future independent National Assemblies throughout that area — National
Assemblies which will supersede in not very many years’ time the
Regional Assemblies to be elected next April. Therefore, too much
attention cannot be given to the teaching work.

 

Far from feeling discouraged, the Bahá’ís must look upon the tremendous
advantages they possess. They not only have the vision of the future,
but Bahá’u’lláh has placed in their hands the means of attaining it;
namely, His Administrative Order and its institutions.

 

To the degree to which the friends learn to function lovingly and
harmoniously, in full consultation and co-operation, will be the degree
of their success in attracting new souls, and creating new Assemblies.

 

It was a great pleasure to him to receive here one of the Central
American Community members as a pilgrim. The news which the pilgrims can
bring of the activities in their region is always most welcome; and the
fact that they have been able to visit the holy Shrines, and can carry
back to their Community fresh inspiration, is indeed a great privilege
and bounty. He hopes the day will come when many of the friends from
Latin America can make the pilgrimage.

 

The pioneers which the Central American friends have been able to send
out to different parts of the globe should indeed be a great source of
comfort and inspiration to them. When they realize what the young
couple, Mr. and Mrs. Fernie, have achieved in the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands, they must feel truly awestruck and proud, as well as challenged
to follow in their footsteps.

 

He hopes that, during the coming year, many more of the Latin friends
will arise to reinforce the weak points, go out into the virgin
territories, and become more active in every way they can in the
teaching work on the home front.

 

He assures you all and, through you, the believers whom you represent,
that he will remember you all in the holy Shrines, and pray for your
success in every field of Bahá’í activity.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*I have, in recent years, and particularly during the year just
concluded, noted, with increasing admiration and hope, the remarkable
progress achieved by the Central American Bahá’í community in the
discharge of their manifold responsibilities under the Ten Year Plan.
The task entrusted to them is admittedly vast, complex and highly
challenging. Thus far, though their resources are still inadequate,
their numbers small, and their experience limited, they have through
their response to the call that has been sounded, and the demonstration
of the quality of their devotion and the character of their faith, as
well as through the range of their accomplishments, amply justified the
hopes which I, as well as their parent community, have cherished for
them. No less is the admiration felt by their sister communities the
world over for their notable share in the prosecution of the world
spiritual Crusade, now engaging the attention of the entire Bahá’í
world.*

 

*The purchase of the administrative headquarters of the elected
representatives of all the national communities in Central America; the
establishment of Bahá’í endowments; the opening of the virgin
territories assigned to them; the consolidation of the home front
through the multiplication of isolated centres, and groups and
Assemblies; the steady increase in the number of the newly enrolled
believers; the splendid work initiated among the Central American
Indians; the incorporation of Local Assemblies, the purchase of the
Temple site in Panama — these stand out as the most significant among the
collective achievements of this valiant, forward-marching, steadily
consolidating, much loved community.*

 

*The work, so auspiciously inaugurated, and now so vigorously pursued,
is, however, still in the early stages of its development. The
forthcoming formation of two Regional Assemblies, marking yet another
milestone along the road leading that community towards the achievement
of its high destiny, must lend an unprecedented impetus to the
advancement of the Faith, in all spheres of activity, both at home and
abroad, thus paving the way for, and hastening the fulfilment of, the
final and most glorious objective of the Plan — the emergence of an
independent National Spiritual Assembly in each of the Republics of
Central America and the Antilles.*

 

*Particular emphasis should be placed upon the twin immediate
objectives, calling for the sustained and undivided attention of the
Central American Bahá’í community, namely the further consolidation of
the home front through a still more rapid multiplication of the avowed
supporters of the Faith, of isolated centres, groups, and Assemblies, as
well as through the preservation of the newly opened territories.*

 

*A more universal participation on the part of the rank and file of the
believers in these meritorious and urgent tasks, a greater degree of
heroic self-sacrifice, a fuller measure of consecration, and a more
dogged perseverance, are the pressing needs of the present hour.*

*Every obstacle barring the way must be speedily surmounted. Every other
consideration must be subordinated to the inescapable demands of this
world-encompassing, majestically advancing Crusade. The confidence of
those brave warriors crusading for Bahá’u’lláh must, above all, remain
unshaken. Set-backs, if any, should, far from dampening their zeal, spur
them on to more strenuous efforts, and impel them to achieve still
nobler victories.*

 

*The Author of the Tablets of the Divine Plan, as recorded by His own
infallible Pen, watches over their historic labours, and will
unfailingly sustain, bless and crown their high endeavours. The Author
of the Faith Himself has unmistakably promised to vouchsafe His aid to
whomsoever will arise to aid His Cause.*

 

*Nothing short of active and continued participation in the manifold
activities of this mighty and divinely propelled Plan can ensure the
flow of that divine grace that can alone bring about its final
consummation.*

 

*May this community, so youthful, so virile, that can well boast, among
its exploits, so stirring a victory as that recently achieved by two of
its former members in a distant island of the South Pacific, add fresh
laurels to the crown it has already won, and contribute still more
notably, through still more brilliant achievements, in its homeland as
well as in distant fields, to the enrichment of the annals of the Faith
in Latin America.*

 

*Shoghi*

30 July 1956 \[Panama\]

Mr. Esteban Canales, Secretary

Central American National Spiritual Assembly

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Please consider this as a postscript added to the letter of the beloved
Guardian recently mailed you; since writing it he has received your
letter of June 15th.

As regards questions raised in this letter: Local Assemblies established
in the virgin American areas cannot participate in the election of the
Regional National Spiritual Assemblies. As Jamaica has already
participated in the establishment of the Central American National
Spiritual Assembly it may participate in the elections for the Regional
National Spiritual Assembly. Bermuda likewise, as it is not a virgin
area.

The islands around Nassau should be on the isolated list, and, as the
number of believers increases, form their own Local Assemblies.

The Guardian has instructed the Bahá’ís everywhere that they should
withdraw from Masonic lodges. What Mr. Ioas wrote applies to Central
America.

Another pioneer should by all means be sent to the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands as the situation there has improved. The Guardian attaches the
greatest importance to this.

It is quite correct to appoint National Teaching Committees for the
virgin areas to promote the work there.

> The Guardian sends you all his loving greetings,
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He will specially pray for the success of the activities of the two
National Teaching Committees.

24 October 1956 \[Panama\]

Mr. Esteban Canales, Secretary

Central American National Spiritual Assembly

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

As regards the questions you raised in your recent letter, concerning
provision of funds for pioneers, the beloved Guardian feels that, as the
new Latin American National Spiritual Assemblies will be elected in
about six months’ time, there is no use going into these matters now. No
doubt, many adjustments will have to be made to meet the new phase the
Faith in Latin America is entering, and the time to consider these
matters will be when the new regional bodies are formed.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

26 April 1957 \[National Spiritual Assembly of Argentina, Chile,
Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia\]

Assure newly elected Assembly Buenos Aires fervent loving prayers
promotion interests Faith attainment goals Plan.

July 1, 1957

Mrs. Dee Worth, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Greater Antilles

Dear Bahá’í’ Sister:

Your communications, together with enclosures, have arrived safely, and
the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and
to acknowledge receipt of your letters dated May 5 and 17.

He was very happy to see the photographs of your convention and the new
Assembly, and has placed the latter in the mansion, where the visiting
friends can enjoy seeing the members of this new national body.

It was a great disappointment, he knows, to the Haitian believers to be
deprived at the last moment of acting as host to this historic
convention, also of not being able to send their delegates to Jamaica.
However, whenever the situation improves in that part of the world and
circumstances permit, they have the assurance of knowing that the seat
of the national body will be in Port-au-Prince, so they can afford to be
patient.

Your Assembly was certainly born in a very auspicious atmosphere, and he
hopes that the love, unity and enthusiasm which pervaded the convention
will animate you all during the coming year, and, through you, stream
out to the communities it is your privilege to serve and guide. More
important than any material consideration is the spirit which animates
the believers and their administrative bodies. When the spirit is right,
the blessings will be far greater, because they can flow unhindered
through a pure channel. The degree to which all over the world the
Bahá’í community is becoming representative of the vast majority of the
human race, in other words, non-whites, is very salutary. As the
majority of the people in at least three countries under your Assembly’s
jurisdiction are negro, they will, he hopes, become the predominating
element in the communities. However, the minorities, Spanish, Americans
etc. should receive attention also, in order to demonstrate the
representative character of our Faith and the extreme kindness we always
show to those who are minorities, in order to compensate them for what
is a disability in political circles, but not in our Faith.

The most important work of all is the teaching work, and he hopes you
will encourage the friends all the time to go forth and teach. You must
help the believers to realize that ultimately it is upon each individual
that the progress of the Faith depends. The Bahá’ís are prone to
attaching too much emphasis to their being on Assemblies and committees.
This kind of work is essential, because somebody has to do it, but it is
not the most important. The individual responsibility to teach the Faith
is the most important thing of all, and this has been clearly pointed
out by Bahá’u’lláh, Himself.

There is a tendency, a very natural one, of administrative bodies to
want to administer, and consequently to build up rules and regulations,
and deluge the friends with admonitions. The Guardian has seen this take
place so many times in his own experience in watching over the interests
of our Faith, that he feels it wise to warn you against allowing this
tendency to creep upon you unawares, so to speak. There must be a free
flow of strength, stimulation and energy going out to all the centres,
and not a flow of detailed instructions. To the degree to which your
Assembly is able to accomplish this, will it demonstrate its maturity.
To complicate matters is invariably a sign of immaturity; true wisdom is
to simplify them.

He feels sure this is going to be a wonderful year of achievement in
that area. The fact that what were previously the Central American and
South American National Spiritual Assemblies have split up into four new
regional bodies cannot but of itself strengthen the work, and stimulate
and challenge the friends. It also, through making it more wieldy, by
compromising a smaller unit, enables your Assembly to carry on its
affairs in a much more efficient manner. Naturally this applies equally
to your three sister Latin American Assemblies.

You may be sure that, as you carry forward your activities, formulate
the details of your Six Year Plan, aid the friends to spread the Faith,
increase your Assemblies, groups and isolated centres — in short, in all
that you do — you will be surrounded by his most loving prayers, and he
will be eagerly anticipating a row of sizeable and concrete victories
presented to your second convention next Riḍván.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*The emergence of an independent Bahá’í community in the Greater
Antilles, attested by the formation of a separate Regional Spiritual
Assembly for that area, situated between the North and South American
continents, is a clear and convincing indication of the remarkable
progress achieved, in recent years, by the followers of the Faith both
in Central America and the neighbouring islands. The work already
achieved by the members of this valiant community, both in its quality
and range, and despite formidable obstacles, is indeed worthy of the
highest praise, and augurs well for the eventual formation of a separate
National Assembly in each of the islands and republics included in that
area.*

*A task of unprecedented significance and highly challenging in its
nature now confronts the members of this steadfast, consecrated and
virile community. The obstacles standing in their path are varied and
numerous. The field in which their elected representatives are called
upon to operate is admittedly vast, and its pitfalls are many and far
from negligible. Nothing short of a continuous and systematic effort,
and an unyielding determination to tear down every barrier obstructing
their path, and a whole-hearted consecration to the collective
enterprise they have embarked upon, can ensure, during the fast fleeting
years which lie immediately ahead, the attainment of their goals and the
opening of a still more glorious chapter in the annals of their Faith in
that highly-promising region.*

*The Six Year Plan, launched on the morrow of their first historic
convention, should be regarded as the primary and effectual instrument
for the achievement of the goals they are now summoned to attain. Its
most vital objective — the rapid and unprecedented increase of the number
of the avowed supporters of the Faith throughout that area — must receive
the earnest and immediate consideration of all those who share in the
prosecution of this Plan. Simultaneously, a concerted effort on the part
of the members of this community and their elected representatives must
be made to ensure the multiplication of isolated centres, of groups and
of Local Assemblies, for the purpose of broadening and reinforcing the
foundations of a steadily rising Administrative Order. All firmly
grounded Assemblies must, moreover, be incorporated in order to
strengthen still further the basis of these newly fledged administrative
institutions. Equally important is the obligation to secure from the
authorities concerned recognition of the Bahá’í marriage certificates as
well as of the Bahá’í holy days. Particular attention should be directed
to the work initiated in the newly opened territories allocated to the
former National Assembly of Central America and of the Greater Antilles,
for the purpose of enlarging the scope, and of contributing to the
stability, of the institutions so laboriously erected in those regions.
The establishment of Bahá’í summer schools and the dissemination of
Bahá’í literature, are, furthermore, objectives of vital importance
which should, under no circumstances, be either forgotten or neglected.
And, last but not least, the selection and purchase of a site in each of
the republics and islands included in that area for the future
construction of a Ma*sh*riqu’l-A*dh*kár, is a task which should be
carefully considered and energetically carried out.*

*A collective enterprise, at once so vast and so arduous, to be
accomplished during so brief a period, by a community so limited in the
number of its members, and so restricted in its material resources, and
whose field embraces so wide an area, merits, from the very hour of its
inception, the highest degree of consecration, and calls for the utmost
vigilance and self-sacrifice, as well as an inflexible resolve on the
part of its participants to crown it with speedy and unqualified
success.*

*Now is the time for the followers of the Most Great Name throughout the
Greater Antilles to display these very qualities so essential for the
consummation of their epoch-making task. Now is the time for them to
rise to such heights as to astonish their brethren, not only in Latin
America and throughout the Western Hemisphere, but in every continent of
the globe.*

*That they may discharge their weighty responsibilities in a manner that
befits their high calling, and to a degree that will draw forth from the
Source on High a still fuller measure of celestial grace and divine
assistance that will enable them to advance still more rapidly on the
high road of their destiny, is a hope that I greatly cherish — and the
object of my ardent prayers.*

> *Shoghi*

3 July 1957

Miss Dorothy Campbell, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Brazil, Peru,

> Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your communications with their enclosures and material sent under
separate cover have all arrived safely, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to acknowledge receipt of
your letters dated: May 5, 6 (two), 8 (two), 12, 29 and June 10.

 

Before the division of the South American National Assembly into two new
Regional Bodies, the Guardian received many letters from the old
Assembly, which he is not acknowledging according to date, but they
arrived safely. As many matters in the correspondence with the old
Assembly were attended to by separate letter to the Secretary, I will
not go into them again here.

 

As regards the question you asked him about purchasing Temple sites,
these should be in the neighbourhood of the capital city of the country
in question, and within reasonable driving distance, so that they can be
reached by bus or by train without too much difficulty. Naturally if it
were closer to the city, it would be preferable, but often land close to
capital cities is very expensive.

 

…

He was happy to see the progress made during the past year in
establishing new Spiritual Assemblies. He feels sure that the division
of the Spiritual Assembly into two areas will make it much easier for
the new National Bodies to function — even though the distances
encompassed under their jurisdiction are so vast, it is nevertheless an
improvement over the past.

 

He hopes there will be a great deal more teaching activity during the
present year, and that the Latin American Bahá’ís will increasingly feel
that this is their Faith, and consequently their obligation, primarily,
to spread it amongst their own people. Great as are the services
rendered by pioneers, and unforgettable as are the deeds they
accomplish, they cannot take the place of the indigenous element, which
must constitute the bedrock of the Community, carry on its own affairs,
build its own institutions, support its own funds, publish its own
literature, etc. A mother gives birth to a child, but the child then has
to grow for itself. The older it gets, the more responsible it is for
its own acts. The Latin American friends are rapidly coming of age, and
they are showing this by the manner in which they are arising to serve
the Faith, to demonstrate it, to sacrifice for it, to protect it and
consolidate it.

 

He hopes there will be a marked increase in centres throughout the area
under your jurisdiction during the coming months, and that, by next
Riḍván, your Assembly will rest on a much wider foundation of Local
Assemblies than at the time of its election.

 

Your Assembly should devote particular attention to getting the Bahá’í
Publishing Trust established in Brazil, as per the requirements of the
Ten Year Plan. You cannot very well have a Branch under your
jurisdiction in Buenos Aires, which is located in a territory under the
jurisdiction of your sister Assembly.

 

You should keep in close touch with your sister National Assemblies as
regards all publications in Spanish. The responsible committees should
concentrate on having literature available in good readable Spanish, and
accurate as to subject matter — particularly the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá should be translated from the books already available
in English, and these should be published as soon as feasible.

 

He was surprised to hear, in a recent letter from one of the friends in
Venezuela, that the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds has not yet been purchased there,
and feels that your Assembly, in collaboration with the American
National Spiritual Assembly, should make a concerted effort to resolve
this problem, as it is the last remaining National Headquarters which,
according to the Ten Year Plan’s provisions, needs to be acquired in
Latin America.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*I welcome, with feelings of exultation and pride, the formation of the
Regional Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís residing in the Northern
Republics of the South American continent — an event of enduring and
far-reaching significance in the annals of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in
Latin America. The emergence of this interim Regional Spiritual Assembly
should be hailed as the forerunner of the independent National Spiritual
Assemblies which, in the course of the evolution of the Ten Year Plan,
are to be firmly established in these Republics, and which will
signalize the triumphant termination of yet another epoch in the history
of the evolution of the Administrative Order of that Faith in the South
American continent.*

 

*That the Bahá’í communities, labouring so devotedly and so assiduously
in these five Republics, should have, as a result of their steadfast
exertions and whole-hearted response to the Message of the New Day,
reached so swiftly so important a milestone on the high road of their
glorious destiny proclaims, in no uncertain terms, the high quality of
the faith which animates their members, and evokes in the hearts of all
those who have, in recent years, watched the development of the
institutions committed to their charge, feelings of unqualified
admiration, and reinforces their confidence in the capacity of these
rapidly advancing, steadily consolidating communities to achieve their
ultimate objectives.*

 

*The selfsame diligence, fidelity and perseverance which have so
markedly characterized their stewardship of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh in
the past, must henceforth distinguish their collective endeavours.
Nothing short of the highest degree of dedication, of complete unity and
harmony, and of an inflexible resolve to attain their goals, can
guarantee such a consummation and set the seal of triumph on the
historic undertaking upon which they have embarked.*

 

*The Six Year Plan, on which the attention of the members of these
communities must be focused, should be regarded by them as the chief and
unfailing instrument for the execution of their high purpose. All, both
young and old, veterans as well as newly-enrolled, must participate with
unflagging energy, with complete consecration and undeviating loyalty.*

 

*A supreme effort must be made to swell, as rapidly as possible, the
number of the avowed supporters of the Faith in each of these Republics,
and to multiply the isolated centres, groups and Local Assemblies
constituting the foundations of the rising Bahá’í Administrative Order
in these extensive territories. All firmly established Assemblies must,
moreover, be incorporated in order to consolidate the foundations of
this Administrative Structure. Recognition must, likewise, be secured
from the authorities concerned for the Bahá’í Marriage Certificate as
well as the Bahá’í Holy Days. The historic work initiated, so
laboriously and so auspiciously, in the newly opened territories,
allocated to the Bahá’í communities of South America, must be zealously
pursued, extended and reinforced. The translation, publication and
dissemination of Bahá’í literature in the Spanish, Portuguese and
American Indian languages is yet another task which must be carried out
with the utmost care, efficiency, vigour and vigilance. The increase in
the number of summer schools, and the lending of a fresh impetus to the
conversion of the American Indians and of other Minorities must
henceforth receive the close and uninterrupted attention of all those
who are primarily responsible for the prosecution of this Plan. The
Publishing Trust to be established in the capital city of Brazil, and
constituting one of the foremost objectives of the Ten Year Plan, should
be speedily and firmly established. And, last but not least, a site
should be selected and purchased, in each of the four remaining
Republics, for the purpose of the construction, at a future date, of a
Mother Temple in each of these countries.*

 

*Upon the complete and befitting discharge of the admittedly weighty
responsibilities now resting upon the privileged, elected
representatives of these five communities, in this crucial, transitional
period of their evolution within the orbit of the embryonic World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh, must, to a marked degree, depend their entering a new
and still more significant stage in the unfoldment of the potentialities
of the Mission which, as decreed by the Almighty, they are called upon
to bring to a successful conclusion.*

 

*The opportunities now given them by the Supreme Author of their destiny
must be seized with eagerness, confidence and promptitude. Theirs is the
golden chance to approach and discharge their tasks, which are at once
sacred and inescapable, in a spirit and in a manner that will win the
unqualified esteem and unbounded admiration of their sister as well as
parent communities throughout the Western Hemisphere.*

 

*My fervent and constant prayer for the members of this newly emerged
Assembly, as well as for all those whom they represent within the
confines of these Republics, is that they may never falter, fail or
flinch in the task they shoulder, that they may rather go on from
strength to strength until they hold the palm of total victory in their
hands, and merit thereby the applause of the Concourse on high and a
still fuller measure of the blessings promised by the Divine Author of
their Faith to all who will arise to glorify His Name and contribute to
the ultimate triumph of His divinely appointed Order.*

 

> *Shoghi*

28 July 1957

Mrs. Amy McAllister, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Central America and Mexico

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer on his behalf your
letters (two) dated May 30, (two) June 26, and July 16, and acknowledge
receipt of the enclosures.

 

He was delighted to hear that the Convention was such a success, and
that the Hand of the Cause, Mr. Khadem, was able to visit so many
centres throughout that region. He feels sure that the spirit he
imparted to the friends, as well as the stirring events of the
Convention and the election of your Assembly, will all mark a turning
point in the work in that area and give the forward march of the Faith a
new impetus.

 

Now that the new Regional Assemblies in Latin America have been formed,
and that each one embraces a more limited area than the previous Central
and South American Assemblies, the work should be much easier to handle,
and therefore go ahead much faster. He anticipates great things from
your Assembly and is eagerly awaiting news of fresh victories.

 

The paramount task is, of course, the teaching work; at every session
your Assembly should give it close attention, considering everything
else of secondary importance. Not only must many new Assemblies be
developed, as well as groups and isolated centres, but special attention
must be focused on the work of converting the Indians to the Faith. The
goal should be all-Indian Assemblies, so that these much exploited and
suppressed original inhabitants of the land may realize that they are
equals, and partners in the affairs of the Cause of God, and that
Bahá’u’lláh is the Manifestation of God for *them*.

 

Another of the important tasks facing your body is that of purchasing
sites for future Temples in the outskirts of the capital cities of all
the Republics under your jurisdiction, with the exception of Panama,
which has its Temple site already. The land need not be large, two or
three acres being quite sufficient for our purposes at this time; it
need not be in the city but anywhere within a radius of fifteen
kilometres; and economy should be borne in mind. If, when the time comes
to build a House of Worship, the site is not suitable, it can be
exchanged or sold and another one acquired.

 

Wherever the laws permit, firmly established Local Assemblies should be
incorporated, thus laying a foundation on which the future independent
National Spiritual Assemblies can build when they come into being.

 

Every step forward in the expansion of our glorious Faith releases new
spiritual energies. The believers, as well as your Assembly, must seize
upon this opportunity they now have with both hands, and arise to new
levels of self-sacrifice, service and dedication, confident that
Bahá’u’lláh is only waiting for the instruments to be put in His hands
in order to fulfil His Divine purpose.

 

The Guardian assures you he will support you, one and all, with his
prayers, and supplicate that you may be guided in carrying out your
great work, strengthened and protected.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The formation of a Regional Spiritual Assembly representing the Bahá’í
Communities of Central America and Mexico, with its seat fixed in the
capital city of a Republic the future of which the pen of the Centre of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant has extolled, is, indeed, an auspicious event of
far-reaching significance, to be acclaimed as the forerunner of no less
than seven National Spiritual Assemblies, designed to support, each as a
separate pillar, the noble and divinely-conceived structure of the
Universal House of Justice.*

 

*There can be no doubt that the remarkable progress achieved, singly and
collectively, in both the teaching and administrative fields, by the
followers of the Most Great Name, labouring, in the course of two
decades, so diligently, for the propagation of His Faith, throughout the
length and breadth of an area linking the northern and southern
continents of the Western Hemisphere, has been responsible for this
great step forward that has been taken towards the consummation of so
historic a task.*

 

*The various and urgent enterprises, now challenging both their spirit
and resources, demand a consecration as complete, a resolve as firm, and
a zeal as ardent as any they have hitherto evinced.*

 

*The Six Year Plan formulated to enable them to meet the immediate
requirements of their Mission should be prosecuted with the utmost
diligence. Attention, on the part of all the members of the seven Bahá’í
communities participating in this World Crusade, as well as their
elected representatives, should be continually focused on its
objectives.*

 

*A systematic effort must be made by the rank and file of these
communities to increase rapidly the number of the avowed supporters of
the Faith, of isolated centres, of groups and of Local Spiritual
Assemblies. Every firmly grounded Assembly should, at the earliest
opportunity, be incorporated for the purpose of reinforcing the
foundations of the rising structure of a divinely conceived
Administrative Order. Every avenue should, moreover, be explored in
order to obtain recognition from the civil authorities concerned of the
Bahá’í Marriage Certificate and of the Bahá’í Holy Days. Nor must the
meritorious work, so zealously undertaken in the newly opened virgin
territories, be, under any circumstances, neglected. The translation of
Bahá’í literature into the Spanish and Indian American languages, its
publication and dissemination, should, likewise, be carried out with
efficiency and vigour. The all-important enterprise, aimed at winning
the whole-hearted allegiance of the members of various tribes of
American Indians to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, and at ensuring their
active and sustained participation in the conduct of its administrative
affairs, must likewise be seriously considered and strenuously pursued.
And, last but not least, a site of modest dimensions should, in the
neighbourhood of the capital cities of each of these seven Republics,
with the exemption of Panama, be chosen and promptly purchased, designed
to pave the way for the ultimate erection of a Mother Temple in each of
these Republics.*

 

*Marvellous opportunities, which if not seized at once may not recur,
have been vouchsafed, at this auspicious hour, to the prosecutors of
this historic and momentous Plan, on which the immediate destinies of
these communities, now gathered under the shadow of Bahá’u’lláh, depend.
Theirs is the privilege and sacred duty to exploit them to the full, ere
it is too late, and to play their part, befittingly as the co-executors
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan and members of that band of Crusaders now
battling for the triumph of His Father’s Cause, in building up the
institutions, and in broadening and reinforcing the foundations, of the
embryonic World Order of His Faith in the heart of the Western
Hemisphere.*

 

*No matter how severe the tests and trials they may encounter, however
arduous the task that confronts them, they must, one and all, pursue
steadily the path they now tread, with undimmed vision, undeviating
loyalty, unstinted devotion and unyielding determination, until the Plan
they are pledged to execute will have been carried out in its entirety,
and the fondest expectations entertained for their success by their
watchful brethren throughout the Western Hemisphere, and, indeed, in
every continent of the globe, are triumphantly fulfilled.*

 

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh bountifully sustain them while
discharging their manifold and pressing responsibilities, and may the
Author of the Divine Plan, Whose design they are painstakingly labouring
to create, and Whose mandate they have willingly arisen to obey, guide
every step they take, remove every obstacle obstructing their path,
fulfil every hope they cherish, and enable them, through a still greater
measure of His abounding grace, promised unequivocally to all those who
will respond to His call, to write an unforgettable chapter in Latin
American Bahá’í history, and contribute a share to its enrichment which
posterity will never cease to extol.*

 

> *Shoghi*

29 July 1957

Mr. Athos Costas, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of Argentina,

> Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letters dated May 25 and June 1, with enclosures and photographs,
have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

 

The formation of four Regional Spiritual Assemblies in Latin America
marks a great step forward in the progress of the work being carried out
in the Western hemisphere. He feels sure that all those responsible for
the administrative work will find that, through this division into
smaller units, the teaching work will now go forward much faster and the
problems that inevitably arise can be dealt with more efficiently and
with greater firsthand knowledge of the reasons that caused them.

 

He was sorry that he felt it necessary to insist that the secretary of
your Assembly must be located in Buenos Aires, so that the Secretariat
can be located in the Headquarters of this region; this is a general
principle which he has insisted the friends adhere to everywhere. A
situation similar to yours arose in Scandinavia, where the secretary was
in Oslo instead of Stockholm, and a change was necessary there also. As
the Ten Year Crusade unfolds it is increasingly important for the work
to go forward in a uniform manner and according to general principles
applicable to all.

 

The reports he has received of your first Convention were most
encouraging, and he has great hopes for the future of your work in that
area of South America under your jurisdiction. The Hand of the Cause,
Mr. Varqá, was deeply impressed by the spirit of devotion he found
amongst the friends there, and submitted a most enthusiastic report to
the Guardian.

 

As you formulate the goals which must receive your undivided attention
during the coming years he urges you to bear in mind the most important
one of all, namely the multiplication of the Spiritual Assemblies, the
Groups and the isolated centres; this will ensure both breadth and depth
in the foundations you are laying for the future independent National
Bodies. The believers should be urged to consider individually the needs
in their immediate region, and to go forth to pioneer in near and
distant cities and towns. They must be encouraged by your Assembly to
remember that small people, often poor and obscure people, have changed
the course of human destiny more than people who started out with
wealth, fame and security. It was the Sifter of Wheat who, in the early
days of our Faith, arose and became a hero and martyr, not the learned
priests of his city!

 

The news that one of the objectives of the next six years had already
been achieved before the Guardian had announced it — namely the
acquisition of a Temple site in Buenos Aires — pleased him greatly. This
donation, coupled with that of the land so generously given many years
ago by …, means that you have only three Temple sites to acquire, one in
Bolivia, one in Uruguay and one in Paraguay. The area need not exceed
three acres, and should be anywhere within fifteen kilometres of the
capital cities of these countries. Economy should be carefully
considered, and you should remember that, if at this time an ideal site
is not within your reach, the plot you buy may, when the time comes to
actually build the Temple, be exchanged or sold, and a more desirable
site acquired.

 

Now that your Assembly has been formed and its seat is in Buenos Aires,
he wishes you to consider the grave of the first martyr to be laid to
rest in the southern part of the Western hemisphere as your special
trust; it should be properly kept up, so that Bahá’ís, and the
ever-watchful non-Bahá’ís, may see that it is befittingly maintained.
The only comparable spot, within thousands of miles, is the resting
place of the unique and glorious teacher, Martha Root, who is buried in
Hawaii.

 

He was particularly happy to see that some of the Indian believers were
present at the Convention. He attaches the greatest importance to
teaching the original inhabitants of the Americas the Faith.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself has stated how great are their potentialities, and
it is their right, and the duty of the non-Indian Bahá’ís, to see that
they receive the Message of God for this day. One of the most worthy
objectives of your Assembly must be the establishment of all-Indian
Spiritual Assemblies. Other minorities should likewise be especially
sought out and taught. The friends should bear in mind that in our
Faith, unlike every other society, the minority, to compensate for what
might be treated as an inferior status, receives special attention, love
and consideration.

 

He urges your Assembly, as it embarks upon its great work, to refrain
from introducing rules and regulations which serve no useful purpose at
this time when the communities are small and undeveloped, and will only
stifle the spirit of the friends and confuse them. Like a wise and
loving parent the Assembly should conduct the affairs of the Bahá’ís,
constantly and patiently, encouraging them and instilling enthusiasm for
the work to be done.

 

He looks forward to receiving the news of many victories from your
Assembly, and assures you, one and all, of his most loving prayers for
your success, and that you may be strengthened and guided to carry out
your manifold tasks with distinction.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The formation of the Regional Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
residing in the southern part of the vast South American continent may
well be regarded by them, as well as by posterity, as an event of major
importance, constituting a significant landmark in the history of the
Faith in Latin America, which, by its very nature, must pave the way for
the emergence, in the years immediately ahead, of no less than five
independent National Spiritual Assemblies, each of which will act as a
pillar of the mighty and divinely appointed institution of the Universal
House of Justice.*

 

*The emergence of this transitional vitally important Assembly, whose
seat has been fixed in the capital city of the largest and most
outstanding of these Republics, in the neighbourhood of which reposes
the dust of one of the star-servants of Bahá’u’lláh and dearly-loved
handmaid of the Centre of His Covenant, for ever distinguished as the
mother of two of the oldest communities in Europe and in the North
American continent — the emergence of such an Assembly owes much to the
ability, the devotion, the single-mindedness and perseverance with which
the promoters of the Faith of God have laboured so unitedly in that
far-away section of the globe.*

 

*The opportunity which this momentous development in the progress and
consolidation of Bahá’í institutions offers them, at this auspicious
hour, is immense and infinitely precious. The responsibilities which
such a progress confronts them with are manifold, sacred, pressing and
inescapable. The reward which will undoubtedly crown their combined and
consecrated efforts will be inestimable and enduring.*

 

*The most effective and speediest method, which can guarantee at once
the befitting discharge of such weighty responsibilities, and the
winning of so rich a reward is, no doubt, the whole-hearted and
systematic prosecution, on the part of all concerned, of the newly
formulated Six Year Plan, on which the immediate destinies of each of
these five communities now depend.*

 

*An effort, unsurpassed in its range and intensity in Latin American
Bahá’í history, must be exerted by the members of these communities to
increase the number of the avowed adherents of the Faith, to multiply
the groups, and the isolated centres, as well as the Local Spiritual
Assemblies. Whilst this strenuous and challenging task is being carried
out every avenue should be explored in order to obtain the necessary
recognition, from the civil authorities concerned, of the Bahá’í
Marriage Certificate as well as of the Bahá’í Holy Days. Each and every
firmly established Assembly throughout these Republics must, moreover,
be incorporated for the purpose of reinforcing the legal basis of the
rising Administrative Order now being so laboriously erected. The no
less essential task of establishing the foundations of this Order in the
newly opened virgin territories should simultaneously receive the close
attention of the members of all Bahá’í communities, and particularly of
their elected representatives. The translation, publication and
dissemination of Bahá’í literature in both the Spanish and American
Indian languages; the multiplication of summer schools; the acceleration
of the process of converting the Negroes as well as the American
Indians, and of encouraging them to take an active part in teaching the
Faith to the members of their respective races, and to participate
effectively in the administration of its affairs — these constitute
additional and vital obligations which should, under no circumstances,
be lost sight of nor be, for a moment, underrated. And, last but not
least, a site of modest dimensions, in the neighbourhood of the capital
cities of the Republics of Paraguay, Uruguay and Bolivia, should be
carefully selected and expeditiously purchased, as a prelude to the
eventual erection of a Mother Temple in each of these Republics.*

 

*The field stretching before the members of these newly fledged
communities, occupying so important a position in the South American
continent, is extremely extensive, and the objectives to be attained,
throughout its length and breadth, varied and highly challenging. The
resources at the disposal of these communities are admittedly meagre.
The period of time assigned for the consummation of so tremendous and
arduous a task is short and swiftly passing. The potentialities of that
mysterious and propelling force which the Faith, with which these
communities stand identified, inherently possesses are, however, such as
to carry forward irresistibly their members towards the attainment of
their goals, if they but arise to diligently accomplish, and persevere
in the carrying out of, their sacred Mission.*

 

*That these communities, which have, since their inception, contributed
so markedly to the rise and establishment of the embryonic World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh throughout Latin America, may in the years immediately
ahead, through the exertion of a concerted, a systematic and prodigious
effort, unsurpassed in the annals of the Faith in the South American
continent, promote, in both the teaching and administrative fields, its
vital interests, and, whilst ensuring its protection, proclaim far and
wide its fundamental verities, and noise abroad its fame, is a prayer
that I will never cease to offer to the throne of Bahá’u’lláh in the
course of my ardent supplications at the threshold of His Holy Shrine.*

 

> *Shoghi*

26 August 1957 \[National Spiritual Assembly of Brazil, Peru, Colombia,
Ecuador and Venezuela\]

... ADVISE FILE BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE GOVERNMENT IN ADDITION CIVIL
CEREMONY ...

30 August 1957

Mr. Athos Costas, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and
>
> Uruguay

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

In answer to questions raised in your recent letter, the beloved
Guardian feels that in view of the distances involved in Latin America,
and the advantages Buenos Aires seems to offer as a place to publish
Spanish literature, there can be two Publishing Trusts established, the
one in Rio and the other in Buenos Aires.

The literature of the Faith can be gotten out by other Regional
Assemblies than those which have the two Trusts in their area, but a
practical basis should be the first consideration in making decisions,
and the four Regional Assemblies should consult and do all they can
within reason to support the two Trusts.

All details as regards which books to publish, how many, etc. are
matters for consultation between the Regional Assemblies concerned, if
there is a difference of opinion. If the Publishing Trust gets a
straight order for a book, say in an Indian language, there is no reason
to consult, except with the one Regional Assembly which is ordering it.

The Guardian has already said that questions arising from the
apportioning of the virgin territories among the four National Spiritual
Assemblies are matters for them to decide, and not for him.

He would be delighted if they added new territories, as this would
increase the rapidly swelling number of countries and territories opened
to our beloved Faith.

The devoted services of your Assembly are deeply appreciated, you may be
sure.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

26 September 1957

Mr. Athos Costas, Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

> In answer to the questions raised in your recent letter:

 

The Guardian has instructed me to say that companionate marriage, where
there is no legal or religious marriage, is an immoral relationship, and
we cannot accept as believers those who are openly behaving in this way.

 

Your Assembly should not remove the names of Bahá’ís from the voting
list just because they do not attend meetings, or just because their
addresses are unknown. It is hard to make Bahá’ís; and you must try and
help them and reactivate them, and find those whose addresses are
unknown if you can.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

**MESSAGES TO OTHER INSTITUTIONS, GROUPS, AND INDIVIDUALS**

26 May 1925

To the Bahá’í Friends in Bahia, Brazil

c/o Miss Leonora S. Holsapple

Alláh-u-Abhá!

Dear Bahá’í Brothers and Sisters,

Shoghi Effendi was delighted to get your greetings from the first
Naw-Rúz Feast in Bahia. The Greatest Holy Leaf and the other members of
the Holy Household also reciprocate your loving greetings most heartily.
They all hope that year by year your group may grow in numbers, in
strength and devotion, thus hastening the fulfilment of the Master’s
glowing prophecies about Bahia.

Shoghi Effendi assures you of his warm appreciation of your devoted
efforts to spread the Cause in Brazil and assures you of his heartfelt
prayers that you may be guided and assisted in your noble task.

> Your brother in the service of the Beloved,
>
> J. E. Esslemont

*My dear and precious fellow-workers:*

*Your most welcome letter has rejoiced my heart. I am so glad to have
received a direct word from you and the memory of your working for the
Cause in those distant fields is a great encouragement and inspiration
to me in my work. I will always remember you individually and
collectively in my prayers at the three holy Shrines and assure you of
my keen desire to help you and serve you in any way I can. Persevere in
your efforts, do not regard your small numbers nor your limitations and
your present-day influence. Fix your gaze on the all-conquering Spirit
of Bahá’u’lláh and remember that the time will surely come when Bahia
and the whole of Brazil will joyously respond to and universally
recognize the call of Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá. Happy are you, the pioneers of
this glorious Cause!*

> *Shoghi*

26 May 1925 \[Brazil\]

Miss Leonora S. Holsapple

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

Since writing you on May 23rd I have been asked by Shoghi Effendi to
reply on his behalf to your kind letters of 12th March and 21st April.
He is very pleased to hear that you have been translating the teachings
from English into Portuguese and should like, if possible, to have
copies of all these translations — in print, if they have been printed,
and in manuscript, if not.

 

We are very glad to hear that when you last wrote the manuscript of
“Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era” was ready for the publisher. So far as I
know your translation will be the first to be published, although others
are in preparation. We are exceedingly grateful both to you and to Snr.
Faria Ribeiro, for the self-sacrificing pains you have taken over the
translation and shall be glad to see the volume when it appears. We are
delighted also to hear that Snr. Faria and Snr. Costa are now working
with you on a new translation of Hidden Words. Shoghi Effendi has
recently revised his translation of the Arabic Hidden Words and the
revised form will be published in America shortly. He hoped to revise
the Persian Section also, but has been so overburdened with other duties
for the last few months that he has found it impossible to undertake the
revision, and it will have to be postponed for some months yet, I fear.

 

Shoghi Effendi feels that for the present it would be a pity to
interrupt the valuable work you are doing for the Cause in Brazil,
somewhat disheartening though it may be, at times. This is the time of
seed-sowing, not of fruit-gathering. It is not surprising that
Theosophist and Spiritualist Groups lose interest, as naturally their
first concern is for their own Group. Much more important than
“interesting” large numbers whose interest does not go further than
attending meetings (provided they are sufficiently attractive) and
reading some of the literature to satisfy their intellectual curiosity,
is the discovery of a single soul here and there who is really athirst
for the teachings and who when he finds the “water of Life” will be like
the germinating seed in springtime, that when the rain comes strikes
root and sends up its shoots towards heaven, and in due time bears
fruit, it may be 30, 60 or 100-fold. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that if every
true Bahá’í gets *one* other to become a true Bahá’í in the course of a
year, the Cause will soon illumine the whole world. One soul who becomes
really selfless and devoted to the service of the Beloved is worth a
thousand who are only “interested”, and large meetings have little value
unless they lead to the discovery by some really thirsty souls of the
true “water of Life”.

 

Think how few became real, devoted, selfless followers of Christ during
His lifetime, and how disappointing were the results of the big
gatherings He often addressed! The merest little handful of apparently
unimportant and uninfluential men and women followers was the apparent
result of His three years’ unremitting and self-sacrificing labour. Yet
subsequent history showed that His labours were not wasted. That little
handful of people changed the world.

 

So we must not be disappointed if our labours outwardly show little
fruit in the early stages. We must go on patiently “living the life”,
especially seeking those who are thirsty for the “water of Life” and
hungry for the “bread of Life”, be they important or unimportant in the
eyes of the world.

 

Shoghi Effendi hopes that it will be possible for the friends in the
U.S.A. to send some teachers to Bahia to assist you in your work.
Undoubtedly that would give a fresh impetus to the Cause, and Bahia
might be made a base for missionary work in other parts of Brazil. The
field there is immense. It was a very good move on your part to write to
the Teaching Committee suggesting that this opportunity be made known to
the Bahá’ís. Shoghi Effendi in his letter to the forthcoming Convention
at Greenacre will urge upon the friends there the importance of sending
teachers to outposts of the Cause such as yours in Bahia.

 

> The results of your work among the factory workers are encouraging.

 

Shoghi Effendi assures you of his heartfelt prayers for blessing on the
noble efforts of Miss Mickle and yourself and your little group of
helpers. The Beloved Master spoke glowing words about the future of the
Cause in Bahia and without doubt the confirmations of the Spirit will be
with those who sincerely strive to give effect to His glorious promises
by spreading the Cause there.

 

When the right time comes we trust you will have the happiness and
blessing of a visit to Haifa.

 

…

 

Shoghi Effendi, the members of the Holy Family and all the friends here
join in loving greetings and best wishes,

 

> Your brother in the service of the Beloved,

 

> J. E. Esslemont

*Dear spiritual sister:*

*I always eagerly await your news and every information you can give me
as to the progress of your valuable work. Never feel disheartened.
Remain steadfast and confident. The hour of triumph will strike and the
record of your heroic efforts and services will ever adorn the annals of
this mighty Cause. I assure you of my continued prayers.*

> *Shoghi*

27 December 1925 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

My dear Bahá’í Sister,

Our Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, has been very glad to receive your long,
interesting and encouraging letter of November 15th.

The news of your many efforts towards the spread of the Cause in Brazil
and the already apparent results of your work have been a source of
immeasurable joy to Shoghi Effendi and have assured him of the future
progress of the Movement there.

You must be glad in your pioneer work in Bahia and although as all
pioneer work it is difficult and needs much wisdom and perseverance, we
trust that it won’t be long before you can make of Bahia a Bahá’í
stronghold in South America.

Shoghi Effendi has been very pleased with the paper you are regularly
publishing. He hopes that it will in future gain in importance and
obtain a wide circulation and he will be very glad to extend to you
every possible help in his power and express his views on your work. It
is only due to your unflinching faith and devotion that already so much
has been accomplished, and the burning fire within you, kept and fed by
our gracious Master, will always move you onward and help and strengthen
you in your work. Of the prayers of Shoghi Effendi and of the whole
family of the Master, you must rest assured. Their thoughts are always
with you and they pray to God that you may be guided to do His divine
Will.

The pamphlets which you have had translated and published, copies of
which you have sent to Shoghi Effendi, are of great benefit at this
early stage of your work, but we trust that the translation of the book
of the late Dr. Esslemont will give the Spanish people a book to read
with the greatest care and thought. We hope that you will succeed in
having it properly translated.

I wonder if you have heard of the sad news of the passing away of our
devoted brother Dr. J. E. Esslemont? He was of such great help to Shoghi
Effendi and his effective work for the Cause had only started. He passed
away here in Haifa and was buried in our Bahá’í cemetery. He has left us
a book, however, that will keep his memory always fresh in our thoughts.

....

I am sure you would be interested to know that the Cause has made
wonderful progress in North and Central Germany of late and also in
Austria. In Hamburg they have a splendid Assembly where through the
efforts of Dr. Grossmann, a new Bahá’í, they are doing some fine work.
Mr. Herrigel is also doing well in Austria.

In Geneva Mrs. Stannard, an English friend, has established an
International Centre and Miss Martha Root, who has been to South
America, works with her also. They succeeded in making good connections
with the Esperanto Congress in Geneva last summer.

Here in Haifa our Guardian is in good health. We have as yet no American
pilgrims but we are expecting a few.

With much love from all,

> Yours in His service
>
> Soheil

*My dear Bahá’í sister:*

*I always welcome your letters from that far-away and promising country
and desire to assure you that I ever remember you in my prayers and
beseech for you Divine Guidance, strength and comfort in the arduous but
sacred task which you have so bravely chosen for yourself. Persevere in
your labours and remember that the seed you are so patiently and
laboriously sowing will in the fullness of time yield an abundant
harvest. Do not feel disheartened and rest assured of our affection,
gratitude, admiration and constant prayers for you.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

*I urge you to send a number of these leaflets in both Spanish and
Portuguese to Mrs. Stannard, 19 Boulevard Georges Favon, Geneva. She has
established in the heart of Europe a vigorous and promising centre. A
few also I urge you to send to the American National Spiritual Assembly
and to Miss Martha Root.*

> *Shoghi*

*If you send some to the Theosophical Societies it will be very helpful.
I have not yet received copies of your magazine. Please send it to me
regularly.*

> *Shoghi*

28 January 1926 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

My dear Bahá’í Sister,

Your letter of December 21st was gladly welcomed by our dear Guardian.
It is always to him a source of pleasure to know of your work and to
feel that even in that far-away country you are earnestly endeavouring
to promote the Cause that is so dear to our hearts. Brazil is a vast and
promising country and we trust that you will sow seeds that in future
will envelop the entire country and its people. Such pioneer work as
yours is worthy of the greatest praise.

...

We have had with us for the last few days some of the friends from
California. We trust that some day you will be able to come to Haifa
perhaps accompanied by the first party of real Brazilian Bahá’ís. I
hardly need to assure you that our prayers are always with you and that
our Guardian will be glad to help you in every way in your splendid
work.

The magazines which you had sent him were received with many thanks.

Shoghi Effendi is in very good health and actively busy co-operating
with his friends and fellow-workers throughout the world. He will never
fail to ask our Gracious Master to bless your work and to aid and guide
you in your earnest endeavours.

With all good wishes and much love from the family,

> Yours in His love,
>
> Soheil

*My dear fellow-worker:*

*I am glad and gratified to learn that the voice of Bahia has reinforced
the call of the Bahá’ís of the world for justice and fairness in
connection with Bahá’u’lláh’s House. May this combined effort, so
spontaneously and gloriously displayed, yield the desired result. I
assure you of my continued prayers for your welfare, happiness and
success.*

> *Your brother and well-wisher,*
>
> *Shoghi*

*I have received the November issue of your promising Magazine and hope
to receive soon the December number. Your communications regarding the
House were splendid. I will inform you if the situation requires it in
future.*

> *Shoghi*

16 October 1926 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
August 15th 1926 as well as of the letter of the Assembly. He wants you
to assure the friends of his earnest prayers and of his hope that,
through your combined efforts, the Cause will make great progress in
that land.

Concerning your own plans, Shoghi Effendi believes that you should stay
in that land until the work is fully and firmly established. We have had
many cases when a new Assembly was lost to the Cause because there was
no more a person to bring them together. Shoghi Effendi advises you to
take up this post of a teacher which has been offered to you. It will on
the one hand provide you with the financial needs, and on the other,
open up new channels for service. As a teacher of English you could come
in contact with many young people and win them over to the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi is most appreciative of your services, he will pray for
your success and eagerly awaits the news of your victories.

With deepest love I remain,

> Yours in His service,
>
> Ruhi Afnan

*My dearly-beloved sister:*

*Your continued presence in Brazil is, I feel, vitally important and of
the greatest value. If you can find an occupation that will enable you
to visit a number of states in that country it will be highly
satisfactory. The bound issues of the Bahá’í periodical which you so
steadfastly publish have been received and I truly appreciate your
patient, self-sacrificing efforts. The Master is guiding you from on
high and is truly pleased with your manifold activities. Do not despair
or feel despondent, recall the promise of Bahá’u’lláh and the emphatic
assurances of our Beloved. Take heart and redouble in your highly-valued
efforts.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

*The first issue of the bi-monthly magazine has been read with deep
admiration.*

15 April 1927 \[Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister, Miss Leonora S. Holsapple,

Our beloved Guardian thanks you warmly for your interesting letter to
him, dated January 23, 1927.

He is most interested in all the details of your work, and is very glad
you have entered into correspondence with Miss Root, asking her for
addresses of any friends in Portugal who would like to have your
Magazine.

Shoghi Effendi is pleased to hear that you have received such friendly
replies from the Theosophical Societies of South and Central America and
Spain — this should open a fresh and promising field for Bahá’í work.

Certainly Shoghi Effendi will pray at the Holy Shrines for the group at
Recife, and for the de Barros family in particular, who have been so
good in helping you to organize public meetings, as well as some in
their own home. This service is much appreciated by Shoghi Effendi.

He is also much interested to hear of the old man in prison, formerly a
fierce bandit, who is corresponding with and sending leaflets to other
persons.

Your letter has given the Guardian a much clearer insight into the
situation which you have to meet and he is most pleased that you have
written to him so fully.

Please rest assured of the constant and earnest prayers of Shoghi
Effendi that you may be abundantly blessed and guided in all the good
efforts you are making to serve the Bahá’í Faith, and for yourself that
you may be strengthened and helped in all ways.

The Greatest Holy Leaf and the holy Household send you warm greetings
and best wishes, in which I venture to join.

> Your sincere fellow-worker,
>
> Ethel J. Rosenberg

*My dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your detailed letter has stimulated my hopes and renewed my vigour and
strength in the service of the Cause. I would urge you to concentrate on
a few capable and receptive souls and by close association, helpfulness
and loving kindness, imbue them with the spirit of unreserved allegiance
to the Cause. I am very grateful for the translations of the
appreciations of the Queen of Rumania and I trust you will be helped in
future by competent assistants in the all-important field of
translation. Persevere in your labours, and do not hesitate to write to
me whenever you feel urged to do so.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

*I shall be delighted to receive a copy of your translations and
particularly “Some Answered Questions*”.

18 August 1927 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

My dear Bahá’í Sister,

I thank you very much on behalf of our dear Shoghi Effendi for your
letter of May 16th.

He is always very glad to hear from you and to learn of your pioneer
work for the progress of our common Cause in that vast and far-away
country. It was indeed encouraging and hopeful to read your vivid
account of the various meetings and activities to which you bent all
your efforts. That they will some day flower and flourish, seeds you
have faithfully sown, is beyond the shadow of a doubt, and with you is
and shall ever be the loving prayers of our kindly Guardian.

He also trusts that your return to America will be the occasion of a
happy family reunion and there you will find, even among the Bahá’ís of
America, rest, strength and a sense of merited appreciation which will
aid and strengthen you in the mighty and glorious task that awaits you
in Brazil.

Shoghi Effendi desires and earnestly hopes, however, that upon your
return you will make a special effort perhaps with the help of others to
maintain the publication of your magazine. It is a flickering light of
hope, shining though humbly, yet mercifully, upon its readers; who knows
but it may some day turn into a torch and blaze the path of
righteousness to teeming millions of humanity.

Always interested in your efforts and sanguinely hopeful of the best
results, our Guardian wishes me to assure you as never before of his
good wishes and prayers.

> Yours in His service,
>
> Soheil Afnan

*My precious sister:*

*I feel that you should concentrate on Bahia and Ceara and not dissipate
your energies along too many different lines. Your letters are always
stimulating and refreshing to me. Your name, I assure you, will adorn
the annals of the Cause and will inspire many a Bahá’í pioneer in
future. You cannot realize the splendour and significance of the work
you are doing at present. May God grant you strength, and patience in
your exacting yet sublime task.*

> *Shoghi*

27 October 1927 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

My dear Bahá’í Sister,

A great pleasure to our dear Guardian to receive your letter of
September 19th from on board the boat, and it meant very interesting
reading, and also the enclosures you had sent.

Shoghi Effendi has been very glad of your journey to the various centres
in and around Panama on your way to Bahia. Of course not much can be
expected from these hurried visits but once the contact is made perhaps
you could keep connections with them even from Bahia through
correspondence. You are all alone in such a wide and endless field but
that makes it all the more absorbing when one puts his heart and soul
into it. Of that there is no doubt that our Guardian will always pray
for you and expects to see through your sustained efforts innumerable
centres in and around Bahia established as beacon lights of guidance for
the teeming millions of the continent.

With all good wishes for your work and heartfelt greetings,

> Sincerely in His service,
>
> Soheil Afnan

*My dear co-worker:*

*I rejoice to learn of your activities and progress in those distant
countries — until now a virgin soil for the seeds of our beloved Faith –
and of your determination to resume your pioneer work in Brazil. I am
deeply grateful to you for the translation you have sent me and hope to
receive the rest in the not distant future. Always praying for you at
the holy Shrines,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 October 1928 \[Brazil\]

Miss L. Holsapple

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

I am directed by our Guardian to thank you for your most welcome letter
of September 13th.

Always full of hope, full of faith and full of news of progress, your
letters cannot but bring pleasure and encouragement to our Guardian in
the midst of his pressing work and duties. They are, therefore, always
welcomed, read with absorbing interest, and usually translated into
Persian and circulated among the friends.

...

With every good wish,

> I am, yours sincerely in His service,
>
> Soheil Afnan

*My dear and precious co-worker:*

*... I long to receive a copy of the translation of Dr. Esslemont’s
book. Your services are engraved upon my heart and your name will live
to adorn the annals of our Cause. Persevere and do not feel discouraged,
for the Beloved is guiding you and sustaining you from on high.*

> *Your well-wisher,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 January 1930 \[Brazil\]

To the Bahá’í Friends in Bahia

My dear Friends,

It is with profound joy that Shoghi Effendi has received your letter of
November 12th, above your individual signatures, conveying to him your
greetings and good wishes on the occasion of the Birthday of
Bahá’u’lláh.

He wishes me to assure you one and all of his heartfelt appreciation. In
fact in the great work that he shoulders he is much encouraged and aided
by the thought that far across the seas in far-away Brazil, he has
devoted friends to think of him and to co-operate with him in our common
endeavour to serve mankind and to bring peace of heart and the spirit of
true brotherhood in the world.

He wants me to assure you also of his affection and of his prayer that
you may study more and more the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and with the
application of His principles establish a great Bahá’í centre in that
promising country.

With loving regards,

> Yours in His Name,
>
> Soheil Afnan

*My dear co-workers:*

*Your joint and most welcome message has rejoiced my heart. Your work
will surely prosper and revive that far-away land. Persevere and study
the teachings, and be assured that my prayers will be offered in your
behalf at the holy Shrines, that the Almighty may bless you, guide you
and enable you to render memorable services to the Cause of God.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 January 1930 \[Brazil\]

My dear Miss Holsapple,

I am directed by the Guardian to thank you for your letter of
December 16th with enclosures.

He is very grateful for your second instalment of the translation of
“Some Answered Questions”. When it is revised he hopes it will some day
be published.

I am answering on his behalf the letter of the friends written in
Portuguese and I am sure you will be kind enough to forward it to them.

As regards your work in Bahia, Shoghi Effendi feels that you should not
at all be discouraged. In all pioneer work, the beginning is difficult
and results are very slow to come, but the seeds you have so lovingly
and devotedly sown in Bahia will never be lost nor altogether die away.
In fact to work earnestly when no results are apparent, to teach the
Cause to people who receive it coldly and indifferently, is no easy or
encouraging task and only those who like yourself are fortified by an
unflinching faith and a courage that is born of the burning fire of
conviction can stand it.

In years to come those seeds will some day flourish and if we are there
to witness it or not, He will bless our endeavour. Perhaps it would be
useful to try and reach different classes of people as their outlook
often differs.

With the assurance of the Guardian’s affection and prayers,

> Sincerely yours,
>
> Soheil Afnan

*My dear and precious co-worker:*

*Persevere in your arduous and historic labours. I will continue to pray
for you from the depths of my heart. Will you kindly send direct to
Mr. Horace Holley in New York and as soon as possible a report on your
activities and the progress of the Cause during the last 2 years in
Brazil and South America for incorporation in the forthcoming issue of
“The Bahá’í World”? I feel it is essential and valuable. Will you also
send to my address to Haifa, as soon as possible (latest by end of
March), a group photograph of the Bahá’ís and those interested in
Brazil?*

> *Your true and affectionate brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

*I strongly feel that you should undertake the translation of
Dr. Esslemont’s book into Spanish rather than attempt other translations
into Portuguese. May the Beloved assist you and inspire you in this
great work!*

> *Shoghi*

5 April 1930 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
March 12th as well as the enclosed photo of the friends there. He hopes
that through your constant efforts this group will daily increase in
number, that you will be able to attract many noble souls and establish
many centres.

The work that you have undertaken in opening up a new field is surely
difficult and for some time may seem discouraging. But the truth is that
we should be patient and give time for the seed to germinate. In every
country where the Cause entered newly, little sign of progress was seen
at first, but soon the Movement obtained its acceleration and greater
speed was acquired. So much so, that now in some countries where the
Cause has been existing for some time, groups are beginning to enter.
Individuals are no more counting. Shoghi Effendi hopes that before long
you will experience the same thing and see that land aflame with the
love of God.

The translation of the literature is surely very important, for books
can do the follow-up work as no single person. And among our literature
Dr. Esslemont’s book is the most comprehensive.

In closing may I assure you of Shoghi Effendi’s prayers and loving
greetings.

> Yours ever sincerely,
>
> Ruhi Afnan

*My dear and precious co-worker:*

*Your most welcome photograph has reached me in time, and I thank you
from all my heart. I am now looking forward to the translation of
Esslemont’s book into Spanish, and I will pray that you may be guided
and fortified by the spirit of our beloved Master Who I am sure is
guiding you, watching over you and sustaining you in your labours.
Persevere, and never lose heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

8 April 1931 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
March 15th 1931 giving him some news of your activities. He sincerely
hopes that this group you mention in your letter will keep on their
interest, study the teachings thoroughly and end by forming a properly
constituted Assembly. Once this is formed then the work will take an
easier and more encouraging turn. Have them also study the “Íqán” for
there are found the basic tenets of the Faith. The work may be
discouraging just at present but that is true of every pioneer work.
Bahá’u’lláh has, however, promised us ultimate success.

Anyhow while visiting the Shrines Shoghi Effendi will think of you and
of your little group and ask for you all divine help and guidance.
Please convey to them his loving greetings.

This year we have had quite a large group of pilgrims from America. For
a few days all the rooms of the Pilgrim House were occupied. Most of
them have gone but we still have a few.

The Greatest Holy Leaf is quite well and as the weather is getting
warmer she can leave her room.

With best wishes,

> Yours ever sincerely,
>
> Ruhi Afnan

*My dear and valued co-worker:*

*The memory of your visit is still fresh in my mind and I am looking
forward to the time when you will be able to send your spiritual
children to the Holy Land. Do not feel disheartened. Persevere, and rest
assured that my prayers will continue to be offered for you at the holy
Shrines. With my loving appreciation of your unsparing efforts,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 March 1932 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to drop you these few lines mainly to enquire
about you and your work. It is a very long time he has not heard from
you, nor received any report concerning the progress of the services you
are rendering to the Faith. Those who are in the field should always
keep in touch with the centre and write even though they have nothing of
great interest to report. So please write.

The other subject concerning which Shoghi Effendi wishes me to write to
you is the Spanish translation of Dr. Esslemont’s book. When you were
here in Haifa you told him that you were going to attempt it as soon as
you returned home; but you never wrote to say how that work is
progressing. Shoghi Effendi wishes you to exert all your efforts along
that line. He believes that it is very important to have this book
translated into as many different languages as possible for the need may
suddenly arise and we may be unprepared to satisfy it. He would very
much like to send some financial help for its publication when the
translation is completed. You may be interested to know that it is
already published in a dozen different languages, and there are many
other translations being made.

In closing may I express to you Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings and
assure you of his prayers.

> Yours ever sincerely,
>
> Ruhi Afnan

30 July 1932 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

I am directed by Shoghi Effendi to acknowledge the receipt of your kind
letter dated July 1st, 1932 and to extend to you as well as to our Bahia
friends the expression of his loving appreciation and sympathy.

The general tone of your letter seemed to indicate how slow the Cause is
progressing in Brazil, and this lack of responsiveness on the part of
the Brazilian public has apparently served to discourage some of the
believers. I cannot but sympathize with them. For the religious crisis
through which we are now passing, besides being unprecedented in its
intensity, is being coupled with economic conditions of the most
distressing character. Human society is today attacked by both spiritual
and material forces and under the pressure of these combined powers the
very basis of our social life is being gradually undermined.

But we Bahá’ís, who are fully conscious of the outcome of such
world-wide catastrophic changes, cannot remain discouraged and let our
activities be paralysed. For we have been promised by our Master that
the future is ours and that, however heedless the people may be, however
cynical their outlook upon our principles and teachings may appear, yet
such a state of affairs is but only transitory and will only serve to
pave the way for the spread and the triumph of the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi wishes you, therefore, to persevere, to remain firm as a
rock and to face courageously any obstacle that may seem to hinder your
work. He is fully conscious of the difficulties of every sort which you
have to face and solve. But he sincerely hopes that through your
devotion and self-sacrifice you will be able to overcome them all. He
wishes you also to do your best for getting Dr. Esslemont’s book
translated into Spanish as such a work will constitute the first Bahá’í
book in that language. With the assurance of his best wishes for
yourself as well as for the rest of our friends,

> Yours sincerely,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I was so pleased and cheered to hear from you after such a long
silence, and trust that you will continue to keep in close touch with me
and inform me frequently of the progress of your valued activities. I
feel deeply attached to your work.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 October 1932 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
October 8th.

He appreciates your sympathy in the inestimable loss that he has in the
passing of the Greatest Holy Leaf. You have been amongst the fortunate
believers who had the privilege to meet her in this world and upon whom
she has personally bestowed her kindness and blessing. I am sure that
this cherished memory will be to you a source of strength to encourage
you in your efforts to serve the Cause to which she has offered her
life.

The Guardian has sent you in August a copy of the tribute that he has
written to her; apparently it has not reached you; therefore he is
sending you another copy, hoping that this time it will reach you
safely. It is a touching report of dear Khanum’s life, where the
Guardian emphasizes the various stages of her sufferings, testifying to
her astounding devotion and love to her Almighty Father and Beloved
Brother.

Shoghi Effendi greatly values the efforts that you are exerting to serve
the Cause in Brazil. He urges you not to feel disheartened if now the
result is not favouring you. Be sure that your single-handed endeavour
will certainly one day produce the most wonderful results. The light of
guidance, which has been shed before you by Bahá’u’lláh, will
effectively help you to prepare the hearts of the people to receive His
Message. The Guardian’s sympathy and cheerful hope in your task will
follow you and fortify you in your noble enterprise.

Shoghi Effendi was glad to hear that Esslemont’s “New Era” will be soon
published in Spanish. It is a marvellous effect of your laborious
attempts. Of course it will be a great help to you as it will assist you
to display to the reader the history and the teachings of the Cause. He
is pleased to announce to you that this same book has been translated
and published into fourteen languages, and is being translated into
another sixteen additional languages.

... He hopes that it will be soon printed and attract the attention of
the public.

I should like to assure you, dear Bahá’í sister, of the Guardian’s
prayers at the Holy Shrines, for the success of your efforts and the
attainment of an ultimate victory in the spreading of the Faith.

With my best personal wishes,

> Faithfully in His Name,
>
> Mehranguise Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*Your letter truly cheered my sad and overburdened heart. I value the
sentiments it conveyed as well as the news it imparted. I will continue
to pray for you from all my heart, and urge you to write to me more
frequently, for I long to be in close touch with your pioneer and
meritorious activities. I shall be glad to receive 50 (fifty) copies of
the Spanish version of Dr. Esslemont’s book for the library in the
Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí close to His sacred Shrine. May He
protect, guide and sustain you.*

> *Shoghi*

15 January 1933 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated
December 18th 1932. He was very glad to obtain some news from you, for
it was a long time he had not heard anything from you. Those who are
scattered in isolated places, endeavouring to promote the Faith, should
write the Guardian every now and then and give him any news they have
regarding the progress of their work. By keeping in touch with the
centre they may be able to face their problems better.

Shoghi Effendi wishes you to exert your efforts towards having the work
on the Spanish translation of Dr. Esslemont’s book completed as soon as
possible. To provide such first-class books for circulation is the first
requisite for an intensive teaching work, this is why the Guardian
attributes so much importance to the publication of this book in as many
languages as possible.

Shoghi Effendi wishes me also to ask you to send him fifty copies of the
Portuguese translation of “Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era”. He needs them
to distribute in case some visitor may ask for them.

Under separate cover he is sending you a copy of that book translated by
Lydja Zamenhof into Esperanto. They say it is a wonderful piece of work.
She has translated other books as well and they could be obtained
through Dr. H. Grossmann of Germany.

In closing may I assure you of Shoghi Effendi’s prayers and best wishes
for your success in serving the Faith.

> Yours ever sincerely,
>
> Ruhi Afnan

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your letter imparted intense gladness to my heart. Your services, your
high endeavours, will never, never be forgotten. Rest assured. I am
looking forward, with keen expectation and joy, to the publication of
the Spanish version of the “New Era”. It will constitute an added and
memorable service rendered by you, despite formidable obstacles, to the
Sacred Threshold. Persevere and rest assured that my prayers will
continue to be offered on your behalf,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

1 October 1933 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge on his behalf the receipt of
your welcome letter dated August 18th, 1933, and to express his deepest
appreciation of your precious efforts in connection with the Spanish
translation and publication of Dr. Esslemont’s book. He hopes that its
wide and speedy circulation will pave the way for the extension of the
Cause in South America. The most valuable book to be translated next to
that of Dr. Esslemont is, undoubtedly, the “Book of Certitude” by
Bahá’u’lláh, which contains the very essence of the Teachings, and
because of its clarity and its relative simplicity can greatly appeal to
every thoughtful reader. Dr. Esslemont’s book gives a general panorama
of the Cause and is the best introductory book on the subject. The
“Íqán” deepens the knowledge of the reader by acquainting him with some
of the basic theological problems of the Faith. It is, therefore,
indispensable for every student of the Movement, and its publication
should be considered as an essential step for the effective and wide
spread of the Teachings.

The Guardian will also advise you to translate “Some Answered
Questions”, which is in many ways unique in the literature of the Faith.
“The Dawn-Breakers” can be also of a great help in spreading the
Teachings. But as it is too voluminous a work to be translated at
present it would be preferable if you could simply translate some of its
important chapters and have them published in a magazine.

In closing let me assure you once more of Shoghi Effendi’s best wishes
and of his fervent prayers for the advancement and success of your work.

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to convey to you in person my deep sense of gratitude for the
manifold services you have recently rendered to the Abhá Threshold. The
translation and eventual publication of the Spanish version of the “New
Era” will add fresh laurels to those you have already won in your career
of service to so precious and sacred a Cause. I am looking forward to
the day when I can place the printed edition in the international
library in the Mansion close to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. Persevere, be
happy and confident.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 December 1933 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

The Guardian was deeply gratified to receive your letter of December
11th, and to learn once more of your ever-expanding and
highly-meritorious services to the Cause. He hopes that your stay in the
States has been beneficial to you, both spiritually and physically, and
that you are now refreshed and quite ready to resume your teaching work
in Brazil. Your departure from Bahia has left a gap in the teaching
field which you alone can effectively fill in. May the Beloved assist
and strengthen you by the divine and invisible army of His hosts, and
may He enable you to win fresh victories in the path of service.

Concerning the Spanish version of the “New Era”, the Guardian has
already requested you, in one of his former communications, to send him
fifty copies of this book. But he has as yet received nothing. He wishes
you, therefore, to inquire about this matter, and to forward to his
address 50 copies of the Spanish translation. He fully approves of your
suggestion to send out \[a\] few copies to Spain and to various other
parts of South America, as he feels that such an action is bound to give
some publicity to the Cause. He would advise you to send copies of this
same book to important university libraries in the South. For professors
and scholars will probably be interested in that subject which will
surely be a novelty to most of them, and they may be led to review the
book in the newspapers or through the pages of their religious and
scientific reviews.

In closing please extend Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings to
Mrs. Higman of Worcester and to Mrs. Rachel Small of Boston whenever you
write to them. May I also assure you of his fervent prayers on your
behalf and on behalf of your father, sister and aunt. May the Almighty
keep and strengthen you all.

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and precious co-worker:*

*I grieve to learn that the books have failed to reach their
destination. I long to receive and place them in the international
Bahá’í Library in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh close to His Shrine and
side by side with the twenty-five printed versions of this same book. I
will continue to pray for you from all my heart, and wish to renew my
plea for perseverance and redoubled activity despite the difficulties
with which you are beset and which you will no doubt surmount through
the all-conquering power of Bahá’u’lláh.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

8 March 1934 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

On behalf of the Guardian I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your most
welcome letter of January 31st, and to thank you for the fifty copies of
the Spanish version of Dr. Esslemont’s “Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era” all
of which have reached him safely.

I feel I must express once more his deep and abiding appreciation of the
spirit and the manner in which you are promoting the interests of the
Faith in Brazil. Your heroic self-sacrifice is, indeed, remarkable, and
will no doubt be of immense benefit to your spiritual advancement, and
to that of your collaborators in the field of teaching.

Shoghi Effendi will continue to supplicate on your behalf that the
sphere of your activities be widened still further, and that your
painstaking efforts may soon result in the safe and speedy establishment
of the Cause in Brazil.

With his best wishes and sincere Bahá’í greetings,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and precious co-worker:*

*I am deeply grateful to you for the books you have sent. I have placed
most of them in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí close to His sacred
Shrine. They will constitute a touching and constant reminder of your
untiring and meritorious services in a country so remote from His
resting-place. I will continue to pray for you from the depths of my
heart.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 May 1935 \[Loulie Mathews, Brazil\]

Dear Mrs. Mathews,

The Guardian has asked me to thank you for your letters dated
February 5th, April 4th, 12th, 22nd, and 29th with their enclosures, all
of which he has profoundly enjoyed reading. He wishes me to convey to
you his renewed and deep-felt appreciation of your teaching activities
in South America, and particularly in Brazil, where, thanks to your
valued endeavours and to the warm assistance extended to you by that
indefatigable pioneer teacher of the Cause Miss Leonora Holsapple, a
genuine interest in the Teachings has been aroused.

Shoghi Effendi trusts that after your departure from that country, you
will continue communicating with those whom you have succeeded in
attracting to the Message, and with the view of intensifying and
maintaining their interest in the Faith. He fully agrees with your
suggestion that without some exact knowledge of the theory and practice
of the Administration, it would be impossible to establish a permanent
group of believers capable of developing one day into an Assembly. The
Bahá’í teacher must not only strive to deliver and expound the Message,
he must, in addition, make an effort to consolidate his teaching work by
establishing a small group of sincere and active people who have a
genuine interest in the Cause. The only power that can hold these people
together, and unify and direct their activities, is the Administration,
which does not only give them a clear vision of the task they have to
perform, but also provides them with the necessary incentive to
translate into actions and deeds the ideals they have embraced.

In view of that, it would be quite splendid if in addition to the purely
teaching side of your activities you make a special effort to teach and
establish the Administration in the countries you visit.

The Guardian has lately received a letter from the Honolulu Assembly,
expressing their appreciation of your teaching activities in their
centre, and requesting him to ask you to pay a second visit to their
group some time during the coming winter. Shoghi Effendi thinks, that in
case this trip does not interfere with your teaching plans in South
America, it would be very useful if you undertake a journey to Honolulu.
The friends there are in great need of competent teachers, and would
immensely appreciate any assistance you may extend to them in this
respect.

Wishing you always full success in your labours, and with Shoghi
Effendi’s best wishes and prayers for your welfare and guidance,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and highly valued co-worker:*

*You have in the course of your South American tour added fresh laurels
to the crown which your endeavours in distant fields have won you in the
service of the Cause. I am highly gratified and deeply thankful. I would
urge you to do all you possibly can, through correspondence and
consultation with the American National Assembly, in order to maintain
the interest and consolidate the work you have so splendidly initiated
in the southern continent. I will pray for your success from the bottom
of my heart.*

*Shoghi*

26 July 1935 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Beloved Bahá’í Sister,

The Guardian has read with deepest interest and satisfaction your warm
and welcome message of May 31st, and has been greatly encouraged to
learn of the slow, though steady progress which the Cause is making in
South America. He is specially gratified that Mrs. Loulie Mathews’ visit
has been of such a tremendous help and encouragement to you, and that
through her a few people of capacity have been attracted to the Faith.

The problem of converting the natives is, as you rightly state, an
exceedingly difficult one. But not until it has been solved, even though
partially, can there be any hope of establishing the Cause firmly and
permanently in the South American States. Foreigners, of course, have to
start the work. But their work should be mainly centred on finding the
ways and means whereby the natives can be won to the Cause.

This is, therefore, what the Guardian wishes you to concentrate upon.
Your immediate objective should be to bring together a small group of
beginners, to cultivate and deepen their interest in the Message, to
make them accept it in its wholeness, and to give them the scope as well
as the stimulus to help in spreading it among their fellow-countrymen.
When such a group of native Bahá’ís is established you can then feel
confident that the work will continue progressing, with some slight
drawbacks, of course, but without any serious danger.

Your task, though highly difficult, is by no means insurmountable. Your
perseverance can and will, no doubt, remove any obstacle that may
threaten to hinder the progress of your work. The Guardian is
continually praying for you, that Bahá’u’lláh may continue to keep,
guide and strengthen you in your magnificent and pioneering labours for
the establishment of the Faith in South America.

With regard to ... referred to in your letter, he wrote a letter to the
Guardian last winter. In reply Shoghi Effendi sent him some literature
in Spanish, and also wrote him a letter of appreciation and
encouragement. But since he has received no word from him. His wife must
have probably turned away his attention from the Cause.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings from the Guardian,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*The impetus which Mrs. Mathews’ visit has lent to your teaching
activities will, I am sure, enable you to extend the scope and deepen
the influence of your magnificent and unsparing efforts for the
establishment of the Faith of God in that far-off country. I will pray
that your historic work, performed with such diligence, devotion and
loyalty, may be crowned with signal success. I shall ever remember you
at the holy Shrines. Rest assured.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 December 1935 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

Your most welcome letter of October 28th is at hand, and its perusal has
greatly rejoiced the Guardian’s heart. The news of the new meeting
centre you have chosen for your gatherings, and of the ever-increasing
interest with which the friends are studying the Message has truly
inspired him, and confirmed his hopes for the future expansion and
consolidation of the Cause in Brazil. He particularly cherishes the hope
that Bahia will soon develop into a leading Bahá’í centre in South
America. His gratitude for the self-sacrificing and sustained efforts
you are exerting to that end is boundless. He feels confident that your
exemplary steadfastness and devotion will result in a glorious triumph
for our beloved Faith, and will serve to stimulate the friends to a
renewed and vigorous effort in the field of Bahá’í pioneer work. May the
Beloved ever protect and assist you in your labours, and enable you to
fully attain your heart’s most cherished and ardent desire.

In his prayers at the Holy Shrines the Guardian is continually
supplicating Bahá’u’lláh on your behalf, that through His confirmations
you may be guided and assisted in your labours for the establishment of
His Faith in Brazil.

With his renewed and loving appreciation of your painstaking endeavours
in this connection, and with all good wishes and greetings,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dearly-beloved co-worker:*

*If the translation of the “Íqán” is completed and ready for printing I
would certainly urge you to exert your utmost to have it printed. I
shall be only too glad to help financially, and would be pleased to
learn of the approximate cost involved in printing the Book. Rest
assured that my prayers will continue to be offered on your behalf. My
admiration for your devotion and steadfastness is profound and
ever-increasing.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 March 1936 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

On behalf of the Guardian I acknowledge with deepest thanks the receipt
of your letter of the 21st February.

He is very glad indeed that you have completed the translation of the
“Kitáb-i-Íqán” into Spanish, and wishes me to convey to you his hearty
congratulations upon the success of your efforts for the preparation of
this manuscript which constitutes, beyond doubt, a most important
addition to the literature of the Cause in Spanish.

He is enclosing a draft for fifteen English pounds for the printing of
five hundred copies, and wishes you to start immediately the work, once
the manuscript has been carefully revised and is ready for publication.
He is quite of your opinion that it would not be very advisable to have
a large number of copies printed at this time.

With his renewed greetings and best wishes for your health, and for the
continued development and success of your labours for the Cause in
Brazil.

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am delighted with the news you give me, and wish to assure you in
person of my continued, my loving and fervent prayers for the
realization of your dearest hopes. I will be so glad to learn of the
publication of the “Íqán” in Spanish, and will refer to it in the
forthcoming issue of “The Bahá’í World”. Will you kindly mail to my
address one hundred copies as soon as the book is printed? I will place
them in the library of the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh close to His holy
Tomb.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 May 1936 \[Elsa Blakely, British Guiana\]

Beloved Bahá’í Sister,

The Guardian is in receipt of your letter of April 8th and is truly
delighted to learn of the success of your teaching trip to British
Guiana. He is very grateful to you for the services you have so ably
rendered the Cause throughout this journey, and would urge you to keep
up the contacts you have succeeded in forming with so many different
classes and types of people.

He also cherishes the hope that the results you have already achieved
will serve to encourage you to undertake similar teaching trips in the
near future. There is so much need for able travelling teachers
nowadays, and all the believers who can be of some assistance in this
respect should consider it their obligation to render all the help they
can.

The Guardian is fervently praying for you at the Holy Shrines,
entreating Bahá’u’lláh to guide and assist you in every step you are
taking for the spread and establishment of His Cause.

> With warmest greetings and all good wishes, also to your dear husband,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I deeply appreciate the work which you and your dear husband have
achieved. I trust and pray you may be enabled to carry on this
beneficent, historic and pioneer work, and may be able to extend its
scope and deepen its influence. I am sending a message to Mr. … and will
mail to his address Oriental Bahá’í Literature. Assuring you of my
loving prayers and grateful appreciation.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 July 1936 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

Thank you very much for your kind letter of May 17th to the Guardian,
informing him of the receipt of the draft for fifteen English pounds
which he had sent for the publication of the Spanish translation of the
Kitáb-i-Íqán. He feels quite assured that through your wise and
energetic endeavours the work will be completed with the least possible
delay. He is certain that you will spare no effort in this connection.

 

It will surely encourage and stimulate you to know that the printing of
this same book in Swedish is proceeding quite satisfactorily, and that
the printers hope to have the book ready for distribution towards the
end of this month. This is no doubt very cheering news.

 

Thank you for your very appreciative remarks regarding the Guardian’s
latest general communication, “The Unfoldment of World Civilization”. He
hopes that you will make a deep study of this pamphlet which, he trusts,
you will also utilize in your teaching work. Your offer to have it
translated into Spanish is splendid indeed, and meets with the
Guardian’s full approval.

 

> With his renewed thanks and hearty greetings,

 

> Yours in His service,

 

> H. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved guide every step you take, and assist you to promote
continually and effectively the manifold interests of His Faith in that
far-away centre,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

27 April 1937 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

Shoghi Effendi has received your welcome letter of the 9th April, and
has learned with deepest gratification of the recent visits you have had
with various Bahá’í travellers to South America, and particularly with
Mr. Kevorkian and his family. They are indeed very devoted believers,
and will surely lend a most valuable assistance to the progress of the
teaching work in those regions. It would be splendid if you, and the
friends in the States, could occasionally visit them, as such a contact
and close collaboration are the most effective means of establishing the
Cause. You should, in any case, keep in closest touch with them through
correspondence and extend to them any assistance they need in their
teaching activities.

With regard to your activities in connection with the training and
education of children in the Cause: the Guardian would approve of this
type of work in which you are engaged, as he feels that through it you
can bring many souls into the Faith. It is certainly far more vital than
the purely humanitarian activities, inasmuch as its primary purpose is
the teaching of the Cause.

The Guardian does not think it advisable, however, that you should
concentrate all your efforts on this type of Bahá’í activity, and would
consider it premature for you to expand it beyond its present scope.

He is praying for your guidance and for the success of your efforts.

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*May the Beloved guide your steps, cheer your heart, fulfil your hopes,
remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to establish a firm
foundation for His Faith and its institutions,*

> *Shoghi*

8 May 1937 \[Haik Kevorkian, Argentina\]

Dear Mr. Kevorkian,

The Guardian has just received your most welcome letter dated April 9th
and is indeed delighted to learn of your safe arrival in Buenos Aires.
He is also very pleased to know that you stopped on your way in Bahia,
and called on our distinguished pioneer friend, Miss Leonora Holsapple.
For although short your visit must have meant so much to her. She
herself has written about her meeting with you and your family, and
expressed the great joy and inspiration which this contact with Eastern
believers had brought to her heart. You should certainly keep in closest
touch with her through correspondence, and if feasible, by occasional
visits to Bahia.

What has also deeply rejoiced the Guardian is the news of the conversion
of Mr. Khalili to the Cause. He trusts that now that he is fully
convinced of the truth of the Bahá’í message, he will strive heart and
soul to spread it as widely as his time and means permit. He would be
most pleased to hear from him, and of the teaching work in which he is
engaged. Do encourage him to persevere and to be confident in the
guidance and unfailing assistance of Bahá’u’lláh.

In view of the fact that you are living so far from the East, and are
not in sufficient touch with any nearby Bahá’í centre, the Guardian has
thought it advisable to direct the Haifa Spiritual Assembly to send you
regularly a copy of their English news-letter, which gives a report of
the major activities of the Cause throughout the East and particularly
Persia and the Near Eastern countries. He hopes that through this medium
you will be able to maintain your contacts with the Oriental believers.
He does not know whether the American National Spiritual Assembly is
sending you a copy of the “News-Letter”; in case you do not receive this
bulletin, be sure to write that body to this effect.

Although the feast of Riḍván has just ended, I wish nevertheless to
convey to you, and to each and every member of your dear family, the
Guardian’s best wishes and his heartiest greetings for a very happy
feast.

> With his renewed and loving appreciation to you all,
>
> Yours ever in the Cause,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my continued, my ardent and loving
prayers for your welfare, your spiritual advancement, and the success of
your pioneer and meritorious efforts. Persevere in your arduous yet
noble task, and rest assured that the Beloved will bless richly your
high endeavours.*

*Shoghi*

26 May 1937 \[Beatrice Irwin, Mexico\]

Dear Miss Irwin,

Your welcome communications of December 28th, February 4th, March 8th
and May 2nd with enclosures have been duly received and their contents
have been read with profoundest interest by our beloved Guardian. He is
most happy that you have safely reached Mexico, and that your
long-cherished hope of teaching the Cause in that country has at last
been fulfilled. Your knowledge of the history and social conditions of
that land, and the great sympathy you feel towards its people, fully
qualify you, indeed, to undertake this teaching journey, whose many
benefits to the Cause you cannot fully estimate at present. You should
be confident that the seeds you are now patiently sowing will in due
time bear an abundant fruitage. Be happy, therefore, and whole-heartedly
persevere in your valuable endeavours.

Your chief objective, the Guardian feels, should be to establish a
nucleus of firm, loyal and enlightened believers who would be able,
after your departure, to carry forward your teaching work. Individual
and personal contacts are most helpful for the formation of such a
group, and you should, therefore, make every effort to approach such
individuals as you think will be able to embrace the Cause. Such souls
are necessarily few in number, but they can be found and easily reached,
provided one makes the necessary investigations and effort.

The Guardian is, in the mean time, ardently praying that the mission you
have undertaken to accomplish may be crowned with success, and bring
forth such good results as to encourage you to prolong for some time
your stay in Mexico.

> Yours ever in the Cause,
>
> H. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless you and keep you, and graciously and continually
assist you to render memorable services to His Faith and its rising
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 May 1937 \[Nellie French, Chile\]

Dear Mrs. French,

Your letters dated February 26th, and March 24th have duly reached the
Guardian, and the news of the success of your teaching trip to South
America has deeply rejoiced his heart. He is happy too that the trip has
proved to be so beneficial to Mr. French’s health, and that you also
have been so refreshed through this change of air, and reinvigorated
spiritually through contact with the friends and sympathizers of the
Cause in the different centres you have visited on your way.

He fervently hopes that the seeds you have sown in this journey will
soon take root and germinate, and thus give you added stimulus to
undertake such teaching trips in the future.

It will surely rejoice you to learn, in this connection, that the
teaching work in South America has been lately reinforced through the
settlement in Buenos Aires of an Armenian Bahá’í family of five persons
who were formerly living in Aleppo, Syria. The man, by name of Nazar
Kevorkian, is a fine believer, having been a very active worker in
Aleppo for many years. On his way to Argentina he stopped at Haifa and
met the Guardian, who advised him, immediately upon his arrival in
Buenos Aires, to inform the American National Spiritual Assembly of his
plans to settle in Argentina.

The Guardian hopes that with this Bahá’í family as a nucleus, the Cause
in Buenos Aires will have a great chance of expanding. He wishes you to
endeavour, by any means you can, to further stimulate the progress that
has been so unexpectedly accomplished.

With the assurance of his prayers for your success and guidance, and for
the confirmation of …, whom you have contacted during your last cruise
to South America,

> Yours ever in the Cause,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Wishing you signal success in the high endeavours you are continually
exerting, both at home and in distant fields, for the spread of the
Faith and the rise and consolidation of its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 September 1937 \[Mexico\]

Dear … ,

The Guardian has received your welcome communication of the first August
and was indeed pleased to hear of the further progress of your
activities in Mexico. He hopes that these six months of uninterrupted
and concentrated effort will have the result of preparing the ground for
a more intense and widespread teaching activity throughout that land.
The few individuals you have attracted, though still unable to
constitute a working group, should, now that you are away from the
country, be encouraged to persevere in their efforts for the study of
the Teachings. The Guardian would therefore urge that you correspond
with them as frequently and regularly as possible, so as to keep alive,
nay deepen, their interest in the Faith. They should be stimulated to
correspond with individual Bahá’ís and centres, and to cultivate
fellowship with the friends, even though only by means of
correspondence.

…

May they all become soon confirmed believers, and arise in their turn to
carry forward the Message.

> Yours ever in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani
>
> *Wishing you all success in your notable and historic task,*
>
> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 December 1937 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

The copies of the Spanish version of the “Kitáb-i-Íqán” which you have
sent the Guardian have duly reached him, and he is indeed most pleased
and grateful to know that this important publication is at last ready,
and is available in sufficient quantity for teaching purposes throughout
Spanish-speaking countries. This book is the more welcome and timely in
view of the teaching campaign which is now being organized and
efficiently conducted in South America, and it is hoped that its
circulation will result in awakening widespread and intense interest in
the Cause among all sections of the population.

The Guardian feels indescribably grateful to you for this historic
service you have rendered the Faith by undertaking in person the
translation of the book, and for having so kindly accepted to arrange
for its publication. He will continue to pray for you at the Holy
Shrines that you may be given strength and capacity to render still more
outstanding services to the Cause in the years to come.

Be confident, happy and persevere in your noble and historic efforts,

> Yours ever in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

10 January 1938 \[Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

The Guardian wishes me to thank you for your letter dated December
fifth, and also to acknowledge the receipt of the one hundred copies of
the Spanish translation of the “Íqán” which reached him safely a few
weeks ago. The book is beautifully printed and is very handy, and is
indeed a most timely publication, in view of the teaching activity which
is being intensely carried out in various parts of South America, and
which necessitates an increasing number of Bahá’í publications in
Spanish.

As regards your suggestion to issue a new Portuguese edition of the
Esslemont book, following the newly-revised English edition, and also
your idea of a monthly Bahá’í periodical in which articles both in
Spanish and Portuguese might be printed, he would advise you to consult
with the Inter-America Committee as to the advisability of taking any
action in those matters at present. He is certain that through such
co-operation you will be guided in fostering the very best and most
vital interests of the Faith throughout South America.

May I again assure you of his prayers for the success and continued
extension of your activities in Brazil, and for the promotion of your
work with the children. He hopes that the classes you are conducting
will prove effective means for the confirmation of new souls in the
Cause.

With the season’s best greetings to you,

> Yours ever in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*With the assurance of my abiding appreciation of the many and varied
services you are so nobly rendering the Faith under such trying
circumstances,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

13 March 1939 \[Loulie Mathews, Mexico\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

Your welcome communications of January 23rd and of February 9th, as well
as the copy of the letter addressed to you by Mrs. Stewart regarding the
Inter-America teaching campaign, have duly reached our beloved Guardian,
and their contents read with feelings of utmost satisfaction.

He has also received the copies of the printed translation of the
prayers in Spanish, and wishes me to assure you, and through you the
Inter-America Committee, of his thanks and gratitude, and to express his
full satisfaction at the progress of your plans for the publication of
Bahá’í literature in Spanish. The booklet of prayers is quite
attractive, and indeed excellent in production, and the translation, it
is hoped, is also of a high literary standard, and accurate in
rendering. He trusts further translations are ready for printing, and
that sufficient funds have been allotted and are available for this
purpose.

The Guardian was also most delighted to note that your meeting with the
National Spiritual Assembly in California has been marked with such
singular success, and that the members were all so responsive and
generous to your suggestions, and to those offered by Mr. Mathews. He
values beyond words the loving co-operation which he is so ably
extending to you throughout your teaching travels, and will pray that
your joint and self-sacrificing exertions in this field may continue to
widen in range, and be crowned with ever-increasing success.

As to the news of the wonderful and quite unexpected results so rapidly
won by dear Mrs. Stewart during her recent journey to Argentina and the
adjoining countries, the Guardian believes that, in view of the
unprecedented success accomplished by this able and distinguished
teacher, and also in view of the warm response which the Message is
receiving in these South American states, no effort should be spared in
order to enable Mrs. Stewart to prolong her stay and to prepare the
ground for the formation of a Spiritual Assembly in the near future.

The Guardian also feels it would be an excellent idea for Mr. Pedro
Espinosa, our dear Mexican believer, to attend the Convention this
April, and whole-heartedly approves of the National Spiritual Assembly’s
decision to extend to him such an invitation. His contact with the
American believers, and in particular with the members of the National
Spiritual Assembly, cannot but help in deepening his knowledge of the
Cause, and intensifying his love and devotion to the Faith.

Assuring you again of the Guardian’s prayers for your health and your
continued confirmation in your services,

> Yours ever sincerely,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and precious co-worker:*

*Your last letter of February 11 has also reached me, and I grieve to
learn of the condition of dear … , for whom I will assuredly pray from
the depth of my heart. I deeply sympathize with him and pray that he may
be given the strength to withstand these trials and to persevere in his
work of service to the Cause, which he has so ably and magnificently
started. I am glad to hear that Mrs. Stewart has prolonged her stay and
am replying to a letter I just received from her. As to your own dear
self I am thrilled by the news you give me and by the manner in which
you discharge your manifold and vital duties. I am so pleased to know
that Mr. Mathews is so closely collaborating with you. May the Beloved
protect and guide you both in the great work you are doing for His
Cause.*

*Shoghi*

*I will place the photo of the Mexico Assembly and the Spanish
translations in the Mansion, close to the room where Bahá’u’lláh passed
away.*

*Sh.*

24 October 1939 \[Philip Marangella, Cuba\]

Dear Mr. Marangella,

Your delightful message dated August 10th was received and read with
grateful appreciation by our beloved Guardian. He deeply regrets,
however, that owing to present circumstances, and also due to the heavy
pressure of work on him during the last few weeks, he could not answer
you earlier.

He felt so encouraged at the report of your splendid teaching
achievements in Cuba during the last few months, and noted with special
gratification the valuable contacts you have been able to establish with
so many individuals of high and responsible position in Havana. His
fervent hope is that such avenues of contact as you have been able to
find will permit you, in the near future, to bring into the Faith people
of capacity and spiritual understanding who, through the power of their
wealth and social position, and first and foremost through their
devotion to the Cause, and their enthusiasm to promote its truth, will
contribute in their turn in further extending the scope and
strengthening the foundations of the teaching work throughout that
island. His prayers will be specially and most ardently offered to
Bahá’u’lláh that He may richly bless your labours, and crown your
efforts with complete success.

The Guardian wishes me to seize this opportunity of extending to you and
to Mrs. Marangella his heartfelt good wishes on the occasion of your
marriage, and of assuring you also of his prayers that this union may
prove a step toward more effective service on the part of you both to
the Faith in Latin America.

> With his warmest good wishes and loving greetings to you both,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Wishing you ever-increasing success in your steadfast and devoted
efforts in the field of pioneer teaching, and assuring you of my special
prayers for the speedy realization of your highest hopes in His
service,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 October 1939 \[Wilfred Barton, Uruguay\]

Dear Mr. Barton,

The Guardian wishes me to gratefully acknowledge the receipt of your
most welcome letter of October 7th, reporting on your teaching work in
Uruguay. He is delighted and deeply thankful that you should have
offered yourself for pioneer service in that country, and has full hope
that with the unfailing help and guidance of Bahá’u’lláh and your own
persistent, vigorous and self-sacrificing efforts you will carry your
mission to a successful conclusion.

It pleased him to know of the opportunities you have had of delivering
the Message to so many people while on your way to South America, and he
trusts that these contacts will someday blossom and bear fruit for the
growth and establishment of the Cause in these Latin American countries.

Your meeting with dear Miss Holsapple and Mr. and Mrs. Worley in Brazil,
and the news of recent Bahá’í translations into Portuguese undertaken
and completed by the former, was also a source of deep gratification to
the Guardian. He earnestly hopes that such individual efforts on behalf
of our pioneers will be welcomed and encouraged by the Inter-America
Committee, and result in further stimulating the advancement of the
teaching work in these southern territories.

The Guardian would advise that you consult the Inter-America Committee,
and in particular our dear and distinguished sister Mrs. Stewart, whose
experiences in the field of inter-American teaching stand truly unique,
regarding the most suitable type of literature to be used by teachers in
Central and South America. In general, however, he would recommend that
Bahá’í teachings on the subject of world unity should be used, and
special stress be laid on the principle of the oneness of mankind, which
constitutes indeed the very core of the Message of Bahá’u’lláh.

As regards your suggestion concerning the establishment of a summer
school in Montevideo: Shoghi Effendi indeed welcomes your idea, and is
delighted to know that in consultation with our first believer in
Uruguay, Mr. Simon Rosenzweig, you have already started working out
tentative plans in this connection. He will pray for the success of your
endeavours, but would advise that before deciding on any definite
scheme, you seek the considered view and obtain the full sanction of
both the National Spiritual Assembly and the Inter-America Committee.

> With his renewed and most loving greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your exemplary response to the teaching call addressed to the American
believers has evoked profound feelings of admiration in my heart. I will
specially pray for your success from the bottom of my heart, and am
eager to learn of the progress of your ceaseless activities in such a
distant field and under such difficult circumstances. The Master must
indeed be well pleased with you. Persevere, be happy and confident.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 December 1939 \[Louise Caswell, Cora Oliver, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sisters,

The joint message you had addressed to our beloved Guardian dated
November 26th reporting on your teaching activities in Panama has just
reached him in the Holy Land, and his heart is indeed filled with
gratitude at this fresh and striking evidence of your determination to
implant the banner of the Faith in that virgin territory. Knowing as you
certainly do of the glowing references made by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá regarding
the spiritual future of that country, you should consider it your high
and sacred privilege to be the first Bahá’í pioneers working in that
land, and you should rest assured that Divine confirmations will
strengthen and bless your efforts, and will enable you to attain your
hearts’ highest desire in service to His Cause.

The Guardian is glad to know that you are both endeavouring to perfect
your knowledge of Spanish and would urge you to persevere in your
efforts, so that you may acquire a good mastery of that language and
thus be able to present and teach the Message in an effective manner.

Also he views with great favour your plan of establishing contact with
as many sections and classes of the population as possible, and hopes
that you will equally succeed in attracting to the Faith individuals of
high social position and influence, as well as those of lowly and humble
origin who, no matter how limited in their capacity and influence, can
nevertheless, once introduced into the Cause, render services of
far-reaching value, outshining those which their fellow-believers of
higher origin and of better social standing may be able to accomplish.

Assuring you both of his prayers for the confirmation of your teaching
services, and with renewed and affectionate greetings,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*My heart overflows with joy at the news you give me. The spirit
animating you both in your services to the Faith is truly exemplary, and
will no doubt enable you to overcome any obstacles that may confront
you. I am deeply thankful for having such staunch and devoted co-workers
in the Divine Vineyard. Persevere, and be assured that I will continue
to pray for you both from the depths of my heart.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 February 1940 \[Clarence Iverson, El Salvador\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother,

Your most welcome message to the Guardian dated January 19th has been
duly received, and he was indeed greatly heartened by its perusal, and
particularly rejoiced to know that you had safely reached San Salvador,
and are now actively engaged, together with dear Mr. Eichenauer, in
establishing the Faith in that country.

This teaching mission you have of your own accord undertaken to
accomplish is truly meritorious, and doubly so because of the economic
difficulties and other material obstacles which you have to surmount in
connection with its execution. You should, however, remain confident in
the assurance that Bahá’u’lláh, Whose Word you have so nobly and so
heroically arisen to promote, will strengthen and bless your efforts,
and provide you with all the opportunities and means you require for the
execution of your task.

… The beginning, as in every undertaking, must be hard and difficult,
particularly in such an environment which is entirely new to you. But
you should persist, and confidently strive to overcome each and every
obstacle in your way, and thus pave the way for the consolidation and
further extension of your pioneer work.

The plan you have in mind to enter school together with Mr. Eichenauer
with the view of perfecting your knowledge of Spanish, and also of
acquiring a better intellectual training, particularly along lines most
suited to your teaching work in Latin America, meets with the Guardian’s
whole-hearted approval. He wishes you both every success in your
endeavours in this field.

Assuring you also of his prayers for the confirmation of your teaching
efforts, and for your own welfare and protection in these hard and
trying times,

> Cordially yours,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and prized co-worker:*

*Your letter was a source of great joy and encouragement to me. The
rising generation will be inspired by and extol what you are now so
devotedly achieving. The Beloved will reinforce your efforts and guide
your steps and crown your work with signal success if you persevere in
His path. I will continue to pray for you from all my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

2 March 1940 \[Jeanne Bolles, Argentina\]

Glorious life crowned glorious death Supreme Concourse extol
achievements illustrious life. Advise interment befitting spot Buenos
Aires southern outpost beloved Faith loving appreciation sympathy.[^2]

5 April 1940 \[Amalia Ford, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister,

Your kind and welcome message dated March 4th has just arrived and it
truly delighted the Guardian to know of the preparations you have made
for sailing to Costa Rica. He hopes that nothing has happened since to
delay your departure and that this letter will find you safely there
engaged in teaching the Cause.

He is eagerly awaiting to hear the news of your activities, and wishes
you to kindly inform him of any developments regarding your teaching
work in that country.

Needless to say you will keep in regular touch with the Inter-American
Committee, and will seek their help and guidance in the furtherance of
your teaching mission.

May the Almighty, Whose Cause you have so well arisen to promote, ever
bless and strengthen your efforts, and send down upon you such measures
of His grace and confirmations as would enable you to fully and speedily
attain your goal.

> With renewed and most loving greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Wishing you ever-increasing success in your brilliant efforts for the
spread and consolidation of our beloved Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 April 1940 \[Brazil\]

Dear Friends,

Your joint message dated March 16th addressed to our beloved Guardian
conveying to him your sympathy in the passing away of dear Mrs. Maxwell
has been received, and his heart so deeply grief-stricken at this truly
sad event was indeed greatly comforted by your kind words, and most
particularly by the assurances you have expressed of redoubling your
efforts in the prosecution of your teaching mission in South America.

Surely the loss which the American believers, and more specially the
teaching force, have come to sustain through the sudden and unexpected
removal of so earnest and capable a promoter of the Cause is most heavy,
but it surely can, in the long run, be compensated by the determination,
resourcefulness and self-sacrifice which the teachers and pioneers of
the Cause are so increasingly evincing in the conduct of the teaching
campaign set before them in the Seven Year Plan.

It is for them, each and all, to draw from the life and work of
Mrs. Maxwell such an example of steadfast, selfless and constructive
service as would inspire them to faithfully and unremittingly follow in
her footsteps, and to strive to attain the high goal which she herself
did so remarkably and so well deservedly attain in service to our
beloved Faith.

I take this opportunity of conveying to you both the Guardian’s best
wishes and prayers for the furtherance of your teaching work in Brazil,
and with the season’s best greetings,

> Yours very sincerely,
>
> H. Rabbani

*May the Beloved of our hearts aid you to work as devotedly and
unremittingly as our dearly-beloved and valiant pioneer, Mrs. Maxwell,
and aid you to carry on the work for which she gave her life, and thus
set so noble an example to those who will labour after her in the Divine
Vineyard,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 October 1940 \[Felipe Madrigal Nieto, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother,

Your most welcome message dated August 13 addressed to our beloved
Guardian has been duly received and his heart was immensely cheered by
the perusal of its contents, and in particular at the news of your
confirmation in the Bahá’í Faith.

It indeed gives him the utmost pleasure to be able to welcome you into
the world-wide fellowship of Bahá’u’lláh, and he has every hope that in
His divine teachings you will increasingly find the fulfilment of your
highest spiritual aspirations, and the key to the solution of world
problems confronting mankind in this age.

His advice to you is to continue deepening your knowledge of the Cause,
and to strive, in close collaboration with other believers in Costa
Rica, to further disseminate its teachings, and first and foremost to
rally to its banner a few more receptive souls who together with you
would then be able to constitute the first local Bahá’í Assembly in that
land. His prayers and good wishes will be ever with you in the
accomplishment of this your high and indeed most meritorious task.

It would certainly please him to hear frequently of the good news of the
progress of your activities, and to be able to extend to you any help by
way of advice in the conduct of your teaching work.

With his renewed thanks for your very cordial message, and with loving
greetings to the friends in your centre,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Wishing you ever-increasing success in your efforts to spread our
beloved Faith, and assuring you of a most hearty welcome into the ranks
of its supporters and servants,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

1 November 1940 \[Amalia Ford, Gayle Woolson, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Sisters:

Your joint and welcome letters dated August 6th and 9th, enclosing
copies of reports you have submitted to the chairman of the
Inter-America Committee covering your teaching activities in Costa Rica,
have all safely reached our beloved Guardian, and he was indeed
immeasurably delighted by their perusal.

He feels truly proud and rejoiced at the notable successes you have both
so remarkably achieved, and judging by the number of contacts you have
already established, the ground there seems to be quite fertile for the
spread of the Cause. Though the number of confirmed believers is only
four, you should be hopeful that through your painstaking and persistent
efforts, as well as through the guidance and confirmations of
Bahá’u’lláh, you will be able to raise to nine, and thus be in a
position to proceed with the formation of your first Local Assembly in
that land. This is the chief objective which the Guardian wishes you to
set as your goal for this year, and he himself will earnestly pray that
your joint endeavours to that end may be crowned with speedy and
complete success.

With his loving good wishes and greetings to you, and to our four dear
believers in San José, and assuring you again of his abiding
appreciation of your devoted services,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*May He Who watches over and sustains His Faith, protect, guide and
bless you always, and aid you to add fresh laurels to the crown you have
won in the service of His glorious Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 November 1940 \[Clarence Iverson, El Salvador\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother,

 

The Guardian has been most delighted to receive your good letter of
June 29th, though he infinitely regrets that so much delay should have
been caused in informing you of its arrival.

 

That the pioneer work in which you and our dear John Eichenauer are so
devotedly engaged should draw upon you such great measure of Divine
confirmations is surely a conclusive proof that Bahá’u’lláh is well
pleased with the efforts you are jointly exerting for the propagation
and establishment of His Cause in San Salvador. It is to be confidently
hoped that now that your stay in that country has been indefinitely
prolonged you will have the full time and opportunity to consolidate the
work already achieved, and that soon you will have the boundless
satisfaction, and the well-deserved merit of establishing the first
Bahá’í Assembly in that land. The ever-increasing interest shown by so
many people in the Teachings, and the ever-widening attendance at your
teaching classes should indeed fill you with renewed and absolute
confidence in the glorious success that must needs crown your able and
devoted exertions.

 

The Guardian’s prayers continue to be offered on your behalf, as well as
on behalf of dear John Eichenauer. Kindly assure him how deeply he has
appreciated the message he had appended to your letter, and how pleased
he feels to know that he has secured work as a stenographer.

 

> With loving greetings to you both,

 

> Yours in His service,

 

> H. Rabbani

 

*May our Beloved pour out fresh and continued blessings upon your
meritorious work, which I admire and for the effects of which I cherish
bright hopes,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 November 1940 \[Leonora Holsapple, Brazil\]

Dear Miss Holsapple,

Your most welcome letter dated June 9th, enclosing copy of your
communication of October 23, 1939, have both duly reached our beloved
Guardian, and he has noted their contents with very close attention, and
with feelings of boundless gratitude.

The news of the formation of the first Local Spiritual Assembly in Bahia
has particularly rejoiced and encouraged him, and he wishes you to
convey to the members, whose names he has noted, his heartfelt
congratulations upon this momentous step they have taken which, he
confidently hopes, marks the beginning of a new era of steady and rapid
expansion of the Faith throughout Brazil. He will specially pray for you
all, that your labours throughout this year may be richly confirmed, and
that your Assembly may function with the utmost unity and harmony, and
in such manner as to excite the envy and admiration of our
newly-established communities in both Central and South America.

The Guardian was highly pleased to know that you have arranged for the
printing of the Portuguese translation of “The Goal of a New World
Order” and of “The World Religion”. He certainly would be pleased to
have copies of these publications and also further copies of the
Portuguese “Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era”.

As regards the Portuguese translation of “Security for a Failing World”,
and that of “Some Answered Questions”, he would recommend that in this,
and in similar matters concerning Bahá’í publications in Portuguese, you
should consult with the Inter-America Committee, and act in close
collaboration with that body, so as to avoid any possible duplication of
work, and also in order to ensure that the highest standard of printing
and of literary accuracy is maintained throughout these publications.

In closing the Guardian wishes me to express his grateful appreciation
of the teaching work you have been lately engaged in accomplishing in
various parts of Brazil. He certainly will pray that you may succeed in
so arranging your affairs as to have more time and freedom to pursue,
with greater vigour and intensity than before, your pioneer work for the
Faith in that country.

With his loving greetings to you and to the friends in Bahia,

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I rejoice to learn of the formation of the first Spiritual Assembly in
Brazil, and I wish to congratulate you on the success that has crowned
your devoted and painstaking efforts. I will specially pray for the
protection of its members, the extension of its activities, and the
consolidation of its accomplishments. You are often in my thoughts and
prayers in these days of turmoil, of danger and strife, and I pray that
the Beloved may shower His richest blessings upon you.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 January 1941 \[Salvador Tormo, LSA Buenos Aires, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother,

I am directed by our beloved Guardian to gratefully acknowledge the
receipt of your communication of May 30th written on behalf of the
Buenos Aires Assembly, reporting on the memorial meeting held by the
believers on the 26th of April last in honour of our well-beloved
sister, the late Mrs. May Maxwell.

He has noted with deep satisfaction that the meeting was well attended
by all the friends, whose names he was particularly pleased to read on a
separate sheet which you had enclosed, and feels also glad to know that
you had as special guest on that occasion our dear sister Mrs. E. Boice
Nourse of New York, who had so kindly arranged the programme of your
meeting.

Kindly convey to all the friends, and to the members of your Assembly in
particular, his keen appreciation of their efforts, and his gratitude
for this token of love they have so well deservedly paid to the memory
of one whose name will ever remain associated with the formation of the
first Bahá’í Assembly in Buenos Aires.

The Guardian has also noted with special gratification the list of the
members of your newly-constituted Assembly, and wishes me to assure you,
and your fellow-members, of his prayers for your guidance and strength
in the discharge of your duties, and that also under the wise and able
leadership of your Assembly the Cause may achieve steady and rapid
progress throughout Argentina in the course of this year.

> Yours in His service,
>
> H. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*My heart truly rejoiced at the receipt of your most welcome message. I
am so grateful to you all for the great work which you have initiated, a
work that has been the direct consequence of the self-sacrifice of that
valiant soul, May Maxwell. I will pray for you from the depths of my
heart, and long to receive regularly the news of the progress of your
activities.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 April 1941 \[Ellsworth and Ruth Blackwell, Haiti\]

Dear Bahá’í Pioneers:

Your letter to the Guardian of January 24th was received with
enclosures, and he has instructed me to answer you.

He deeply appreciates the spirit of courageous self-sacrifice that led
you to volunteer as pioneers and which has since sustained you in your
difficult task in Haiti.

All over the world the horizons are dark in these days, and the Bahá’ís
meet often with indifference and animosity when they offer the cup of
divine healing to their sorely-tried fellow-men. But this must never
discourage them.

Shoghi Effendi greatly admires the spirit in which you have met the
opposition to the spread of the Faith, and he feels certain that
whatever you do — whether the National Spiritual Assembly decides it is
best for you to return to America or remain in Haiti — the work you have
already accomplished will not be lost or forgotten.

You may be sure the Guardian will often pray for you as well as for
those souls whom you have already been teaching in Haiti. You have sown
the seeds and, God willing, some day the harvest will be bountiful.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dearly-beloved co-workers:*

*The work you have done, the sacrifices you have made, the historic
mission you have initiated, are highly praiseworthy, meritorious and
unforgettable. I will specially pray for you both that in whatever field
you may labour in the days to come, Bahá’u’lláh may reinforce, guide and
bless you and aid you to enrich the record of your pioneer services.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 April 1941 \[Louise Caswell, Cora Oliver, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Pioneers:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letter to him of
March 2nd.

He was most happy to receive all your good news, as well as the enclosed
photos. The range of your combined activities seems to hold very bright
promise for a future harvest of Bahá’ís.

You may be sure his ardent prayers are offered for your teaching work
and for the confirmation of the souls newly attracted.

The Guardian was pleased to learn that such a capable young person as
Emerita Guevara has declared herself a believer, and he hopes she will
be able to serve her fellow-countrymen as a Bahá’í.

In these dark days such bright reports of the work of the Faith in
far-off lands greatly cheer Shoghi Effendi as well as the Bahá’ís of
other, less fortunate, parts of the globe.

> Assuring you both of his ardent prayers for your work,
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was so pleased to hear from you and to know that you are well and
active in such a distant field and in the service of so noble and
precious a Cause. You can rest assured that my prayers will continue to
be offered on your behalf. Persevere in your high endeavours, and never
allow any difficulties or obstacles to dampen your zeal or to weaken
your determination to reinforce the basis of your splendid
achievements.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 April 1941 \[Helen Bishop, Mexico\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letters to him of
January 3rd and 13th, 1941.

He was very happy to hear from you and receive your reports of the work
in Mexico, also to learn that your dear mother was able to accompany you
and your husband and thus have a share in the wonderful work of
spreading the Faith amidst the Central American peoples.

The Guardian feels very strongly that you are admirably fitted for the
work of the Cause in these Central and Southern republics of America.
Your knowledge of Spanish, your knowledge of the teachings, and your
great devotion to the Cause, all fit you for this all-important task,
and Shoghi Effendi hopes you will devote yourself to the work in these
countries of such vital importance at present. He will pray that every
obstacle be removed from your path to enable you to accomplish this
great service.

He was pleased to hear that Mr. Bishop is feeling better and is helping
you in your devoted efforts for the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.

The spread of the Cause in countries of such mixed population and wide
range of social development — and often lack of development — must naturally
engender many delicate problems. But the Cause is so great that these
momentary difficulties are soon lost in the workings of its benign and
unifying powers.

The Guardian hopes that you will keep in touch with him and give him the
good news of your activities.

Assuring you of his prayers for you and Mr. Bishop, as well as your
mother, and with loving Bahá’í greetings, I remain

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your letter of February 4th has also reached me, and I feel truly
grateful to you for the work you have undertaken in Mexico, and the
devotion, the care, tact and perseverance with which you have promoted
the interests of the Faith in that country. I trust and hope that this
visit will be only a prelude to an extended and fruitful contact with
the centres in both Central and South America. You are eminently
qualified for this noble task, and I pray that you and dear Charles may
be able to seize this splendid opportunity and render in these virgin
fields services that will enrich the record of your past work in both
Europe and the North American continent. You are both in my thoughts and
prayers.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 May 1941 \[Marie Poghaharian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letter to him of
April 14th, which, as you see, arrived in a very short time.

His heart has been greatly rejoiced by the wonderful news of the Cause’s
progress in Buenos Aires! He welcomes you as his Bahá’í co-worker, in
this wonderful Faith which serves all mankind, and he hopes that you,
together with your brother, will render the Cause great services in this
newly opened country of Argentina.

The work done by dear Philip Sprague in that country will never be
forgotten. The reports he has sent to the Guardian of the Bahá’ís of
Buenos Aires, their work and their great devotion to the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh, have been a source of genuine comfort to his heart in these
dark days. He rejoices with you all at the bright prospect of the spread
and increase of the Faith in that city and country, and you may be sure
his loving prayers and thoughts are very often with you all.

He deeply appreciates the loving spirit which impelled the friends of
that city to visit the grave of Mrs. Maxwell. The devotion to the Cause
of God which inspired her whole life was truly exemplary, and he feels
sure that her spirit must be an inspiration to you all.

The Bahá’í youth, as well as all the believers, must at all times
conduct their activities in an atmosphere so truly Bahá’í and
non-political in every way that their government could have no reason to
doubt for a moment the motives of the Faith or the loyalty of its
various adherents in their respective countries.

The unity of the believers, their spirituality and detachment from the
storms now sweeping with such fury through the hearts of the majority of
the world’s citizens, are their greatest protection and safeguard at
this time.

Shoghi Effendi will particularly pray for the work of the Bahá’í youth
of that city — that they may grow to become outstanding servants of the
Cause in that new and promising field: South America.

Assuring you of his loving prayers for yourself and his hopes for your
future services to the Faith,

In with Bahá’í love,

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless you and guide you, and aid you to assist in
promoting the Cause of God and in consolidating its God-given
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi\\*

1 July 1941 \[Salvador Tormo, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your welcome letter to him of
May 24th, 1941, and to thank you for the enclosed photographs.

He was very happy to hear from you as his thoughts are very often with
you in that far and promising land.

The truly remarkable progress the Cause has made in Buenos Aires; the
formation of its first Spiritual Assembly in that country; the wonderful
spirit of love, harmony, and devotion to the Faith which he can so
clearly see animates you all, is a constant source of happiness to him.

He has the greatest hopes for the future work of the Bahá’ís of Buenos
Aires. They have accepted the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh with both faith and
understanding. They are united in their determination to establish it
firmly, in all its beauty and purity, in Argentina. Such a spirit, he
feels convinced, will attract the divine outpouring of the Holy Spirit
and enable them to become one of the most outstanding new Bahá’í
communities.

Shoghi Effendi was very pleased to know that you all profited by the
visit of Mr. Philip Sprague. He is a truly outstanding Bahá’í, and his
profound devotion to the Faith is an example to all. The Guardian hopes
he will again be able to visit Buenos Aires; in his letters he has shown
his great admiration for you personally and for all the Argentine
Bahá’ís.

The Guardian was also very pleased to note that you were able to remove
entirely any misapprehension as to the motives and purpose of the Bahá’í
Faith from the minds of the police. The whole teaching of the Cause is
so sane and well balanced that, unless grossly misrepresented, no one
could possibly take exception to it.

He wishes you to assure all the members of the Spiritual Assembly, as
well as all the Bahá’ís of Buenos Aires, of his constant loving prayers
for their happiness and their services to the Faith. He assures you and
Mrs. Tormo of his deep appreciation of your devoted services and his
loving prayers and thoughts.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I was truly delighted to receive your letter, and I feel truly proud of
the work which you and your collaborators have thus far achieved. For
the success of the efforts of your historic Assembly I will specially
and fervently pray. Be assured, and never relax in your meritorious
efforts, which the Beloved, Whom you serve so splendidly, will assuredly
bless. May He enable you to follow in the footsteps of that valiant
soul, May Maxwell, whose dust reposes in your city, and whose
association with your centre, through her self-sacrifice and death, is
an eternal inspiration to all who labour in your promising country.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 July 1941 \[Marie Poghaharian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letter to him of
May 27th.

He was very happy to receive the good news of the progress of the Cause
in Buenos Aires, and the effort that all the friends are making to
increase the harmony of their Bahá’í community life and deepen their
understanding of the teachings. No doubt very great responsibilities
rest upon the shoulders of all the Bahá’ís at present — for they are the
custodians of the teachings and order of Bahá’u’lláh. They will find
themselves tested from within and without, but tests, like a storm that
shakes a tree, only drive its roots deeper and make it more determined
to live and grow.

The Guardian feels confident that the friends of Buenos Aires will prove
themselves to be one of the leading Bahá’í communities of that great
continent. He cherishes great hopes for their future work, and he often
prays for them.

He was also very pleased to learn that you and your brother are so
active in the work, and feels sure you will be able to render, both
within the community and in the field of teaching, many valuable
services to the Faith.

He would advise you to make a thorough study of “The Dawn-Breakers”, the
narrative of Nabíl, as this is not only of historical importance but a
profound source of inspiration, and should be greatly appreciated by the
sensitive and warm-hearted Latin people of South America.

Assuring you of his loving prayers, and with Bahá’í love,

> I remain yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved pour forth His blessings upon you, deepen your
understanding of the essentials of His Faith, widen your vision,
reinforce your efforts, and aid you to advance the best interests of its
institutions, *

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 July 1941 \[Gayle Woolson, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Pioneer:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your most welcome letter of
April 24th.

The Guardian was truly overjoyed by the news of the formation of the
Spiritual Assembly of Costa Rica. This constitutes a landmark in the
southward march of the Faith of God, and you and Mrs. Ford should feel
the most justifiable pride and feelings of triumph at this truly great
achievement.

The loving and ardent prayers of the Guardian will continue to be
offered on your behalf and on behalf of the members of this precious new
community and those who are not as yet declared believers.

Shoghi Effendi was very pleased to note that both you and Mrs. Ford have
been elected to the Spiritual Assembly. In this way you can assist the
new Bahá’ís to understand and practise the administration through active
participation with them in handling the affairs of the community.

The spiritual and intellectual nature of Latin peoples should tend to
make them very profound and excellent Bahá’ís. The Guardian has the
highest hopes for their future services to the Cause of God and the
important contributions they will make to its unfoldment and
establishment.

Assuring you of his profound appreciation for your services and his
loving prayers for your future work,

> Yours in His service,
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I wish to congratulate you most heartily on such a wonderful and
glorious achievement. Future generations will extol your labours, follow
in your footsteps, and derive inspiration from your pioneer activities.
I will specially and constantly pray that your numbers may increase, and
your Assembly flourish, and your hopes be fulfilled, and your influence
extend far and wide. Persevere, and be happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 October 1941 \[Leonora Armstrong, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The Guardian has just received your letter dated June 29th, 1941. It
seems extraordinary it should have taken so long to arrive!

...

Your residence in Recife should enable you — as you yourself anticipate — to
carry the teachings into yet another Brazilian city and thus add to the
record of your untiring and fruitful labours in the service of the
beloved Faith.

From many sources Shoghi Effendi has heard testimonies of the friends as
to the wonderful services you have rendered the Cause in South America.

Also he deeply appreciates the translation work you have been able to
do, and hopes you are in close touch with the Inter-America Committee so
that they can consult with you about those works most needed in the
Portuguese language, and aid you in every way.

The way in which the Cause is spreading throughout Latin America is
indeed a source of pride and happiness to the Guardian. The hopes of the
beloved Master are being fulfilled at last, and the resultant blessings
will surely be great.

He assures you of his unfailing interest in your work, his loving
prayers and gratitude.

Yours in His service,

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. I hope the address is correct? I thought, as we have had no news
from you at Recife, to put both

names would be safer.

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to express in person my best and heartfelt wishes for your
happiness and for your husband’s spiritual advancement. The work you
have achieved in the service of the Faith I shall always remember with
pride and gratitude, and I cherish the hope that you will, in concert
with your husband, be able to render still more notable services to the
Faith and its institutions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 October 1941 \[Amalia Ford, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to the Guardian dated July 21st has only just recently been
received, and he has instructed me to answer you in his behalf.

He was very happy to hear from you, and, as you already know, he was
delighted when he received the good news of the formation of the first
Spiritual Assembly of Costa Rica. Your tireless services there have been
richly rewarded, and you should feel very proud and happy.

Your noble intention to continue in the pioneer field of South America
by going to Guatemala meets with his entire approval, and he hopes your
labours there will prove as successful as in Costa Rica. He trusts it
will be possible for you to make the necessary arrangements with the
Inter-America Committee to continue in the field of service.

It would be very good if the Assembly of Costa Rica could register
themselves officially. However, this is a matter for them to take up
with the National Spiritual Assembly as you say they already are doing.

Please convey to all the dear friends in San José the loving greetings
of the Guardian, and assure them they are often remembered in his
prayers.

He thanks you most deeply for all the wonderful and selfless work you
have accomplished in establishing the Cause there with Mrs. Woolson, and
he assures you that in whatever field you may continue your services his
prayers will accompany you.

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and prized co-worker:*

*I wish to congratulate you on your brilliant and indeed historic
achievement. I am truly proud of what you have done! Your pioneer work
and that of your dear co-worker, Mrs. Woolson, will never be forgotten,
and will inspire the rising generation to follow in your footsteps. The
friends you have won there for the Faith, and particularly the members
of the Assembly are the object of my constant prayers. They are often in
my thoughts, and I long to hear of the progress of their activities.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 November 1941 \[Elizabeth H. Cheney, Paraguay\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your two letters dated June 23rd and 27th have only just reached the
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf. It seems
unbelievable they should have taken so long!

 

He was very happy to at last hear from you directly. The news of the
splendid services you have been rendering the Faith in Paraguay has
reached him from many of the friends, and he most deeply appreciates
your devotion and self-sacrifice.

 

It is very hard indeed for you that, added to the rigours and
difficulties of teaching the Cause, all alone, in a strange and
difficult land, you should have had the worry and unhappiness of … to
bear. But it is just such tests and afflictions as these which temper
the souls of the believers and bless, with the bitter tears of a deep
sacrifice, their work for the Cause of God.

 

When one realizes how supremely important the South American teaching
campaign is, it is not to be expected that it can be carried on without
a degree of sacrifice on the part of the sponsors and pioneers greater
than any they have hitherto been called upon to make. This sacrifice is
their crown! How small their victory would be if it were not over bitter
opposition!

 

Therefore you should feel the greatest joy that God tested you and did
not find you wanting.

 

….

 

When you write to the dear believers you were able to confirm in
Paraguay, please convey to them the expression of the Guardian’s love
and the assurance of his prayers on their behalf, that they may grow
strong in the service of the Faith and build up a fine centre in their
native land. He feels that the Latin Americans have a great contribution
to make to the Cause. They are a people richly endowed with both
spiritual and intellectual qualities.

 

The Guardian assures you of his most loving prayers for your dear self
and your future services to the Faith….

 

> With Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

*Dear and precious co-worker:*

 

*The services you have rendered, and which the friends have so greatly
praised, will never be forgotten, and I trust and pray that you will
soon be able to enrich the record of your pioneer achievements. However
great the obstacles in your path, Bahá’u’lláh will no doubt aid you to
overcome them, and will bless your high endeavours, and enable you to
render such services as will excite the admiration, pride, and gratitude
of future generations.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

23 November 1941 \[Bahá’ís of Quito, Ecuador\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The Guardian just received your letter sent to him on the occasion of
the Feast of ‘Ilm, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Your message brought great joy to his heart, as he sees in your little
group the first glimmerings of the light of Bahá’u’lláh, which is
beginning to dawn upon South America.

Though in each Latin American country the number of the believers is as
yet small — yet they represent to that great continent what the early
Christians did to Europe in the first centuries after Christ. They are
the leaven that must leaven the lump.

The Guardian hopes and prays that your group will grow stronger and
larger all the time, and that eventually you will be able to send out,
from among yourselves, teachers to teach your fellow-countrymen the
Divine Glad Tidings for this age.

Bahá’u’lláh has said that God will assist all those who arise in His
service. The more you labour for His Faith, the more He will aid and
bless you.

Assuring you all of the Guardian’s most loving and ardent prayers for
your progress and welfare,

> Your Bahá’í co-worker,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*My heart overflowed with joy at the receipt of your most welcome
message. I wish to assure you of my special and constant prayers for
your protection, your spiritual advancement, the increase of your
numbers, the extension of your activities, the fulfilment of all the
hopes you cherish in the service of our beloved Faith. I am so eager to
hear from you regularly, and I trust you will keep me in touch with your
work to which I attach the utmost importance. Persevere, be happy, and
rest assured.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 November 1941 \[Josephine Kruka, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The Guardian was very happy to receive your letter and that of
Mr. Rissanen, dated respectively June 19th and February 21st.

He received one message from him before, and he feels he is a truly
great and devoted soul. The Guardian hopes that you keep in as close
touch with him as possible, isolated from his fellow-Bahá’ís as he now
is; and that through your loving encouragement he will draw strength and
inspiration to go on with his important work for the Faith. Be sure and
convey to him the Guardian’s love and the assurance of his ardent
prayers on his behalf.

Shoghi Effendi has followed with the deepest appreciation your teaching
activities in Cuba, and he is very pleased to hear you are going to
return to that country and continue strengthening and teaching the new
group there.

It is quite impossible for the pioneers and pioneer teachers to realize
fully how great the services are which they are rendering the Faith of
God, and their fellow-men, at this time. But future generations will
know how to value their self-sacrifice, and the fact that, when the need
was greatest, they did not fail their beloved Cause but gave up home and
comforts to serve it unstintingly.

The Guardian assures you of his most loving prayers accompanying you on
all your teaching trips, wherever you may go.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to express to you and through you to our dear friend
Mr. Rissanen my deepest loving appreciation of the constant efforts you
are exerting for the promotion of our beloved Faith. I feel truly proud
of your work to which I attach the utmost importance. You are both often
in my thoughts and prayers, and I will continue to pray for your
protection, and the realization of your dearest hopes.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 December 1941 \[Marie Poghaharian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your letter to him of
September 24th, 1941.

He was happy to hear that the friends of Buenos Aires are so active and
united in serving the Cause and that their numbers are increasing.

They have a very great responsibility in these dark days of war, as they
are the only large community and Spiritual Assembly of believers in
South America. Upon their steadfastness, courage and devotion must
depend, to an ever-increasing degree, the progress of the work not only
in Argentina but nearby places. Into their hands has been entrusted the
task of keeping alive in their country the Faith of God and of leading
others to the true path of spiritual progress.

In this all-important work the Guardian hopes that both you and your
dear brother will take an active part.

He will pray for your guidance and protection, as well as for all the
dear believers of Argentina, that Bahá’u’lláh may watch over and protect
you all.

With Bahá’í greetings,

> Your faithful co-worker,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty aid you to proclaim befittingly the principles of his
Faith, further the interests of its institutions, and reflect in your
conduct the glory of His teachings, *

> *Your true brother, *
>
> *Shoghi*

17 December 1941 \[LSA of San José, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter, addressed to the Guardian by your secretary
Mr. Guido Contreras and dated September 29th, has just been received,
and Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer you.

Indeed your good news brought great happiness to his heart, and he feels
most proud of the manner in which your Assembly, with so much devotion
and sound judgement, is propagating the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in other
districts of Costa Rica.

Your Assembly will go down in history as the first Bahá’í Assembly of
Central America, a great distinction and blessing, and the Guardian
feels that if you continue to progress so rapidly you will soon be in a
position to spread the Cause, through representatives of your community,
in other neighbouring lands. This would be of great value to the work of
teaching these divine laws and truths, as then the Latin Americans would
be hearing it from the lips of their own people in their own language,
which of course would be very effective.

The Guardian will pray that your hopes may be realized and that an
Assembly will be formed in Punta Arenas in the near future.

He hopes that the ardour and joy with which you are serving our glorious
Faith will in no way be dampened by the ever-increasing gloom which the
war is spreading over the entire globe. Our eyes are fixed on the goal
which Bahá’u’lláh has destined for us, and we must strive with assured
hearts, confident of spiritual victory, toward that glorious goal.

He wishes you all to know that his thoughts and his most loving prayers
are with you all, and he feels sure you will accomplish ever greater
services in our Holy Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers,*

*Your letter rejoiced my heart. I am so glad and grateful to hear of
your splendid and indeed historic accomplishments. You have achieved
with speed, and in a sound and commendable manner, what is the avowed
object of every Republic in Latin America, as the formation of a
Spiritual Assembly is the corner-stone of the Administrative Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. I will specially pray that you may be able to consolidate
the work you have achieved, and extend the activities you have
initiated. Persevere, rest assured, and be happy and grateful.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 December 1941 \[Ellsworth and Ruth Blackwell, Haiti\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter of October 10th just arrived, and the Guardian has
instructed me to answer it.

He was most happy to receive the good news which your letter brought,
and he read with great interest the two enclosed reports. You have seen
the triumph of your labours — a great, great blessing! You went to
establish the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in that island, and you have, through
your dedication and perseverance, succeeded in doing so. The Guardian
rejoices with you in this spiritual victory.

He was most happy to see that there are now seven believers in Haiti,
and that a new city has been opened up to the Faith, Les Cayes.

He wishes you to please convey to all these dear souls, especially
Mr. and Mrs. McBean, who are doing so much to help you establish the
Faith, his warm Bahá’í love and assure them that he cherishes the
brightest hopes for their future and the services they will render our
beloved Faith.

He is deeply grateful to you both for the devotion and perseverance you
have shown, and the rich fruits you are garnering for the Beloved. Rest
assured his most loving prayers surround you and your teaching
activities, and be confident of seeing the reward of your labours in the
future.

He urges you, as well as the new believers, to persevere in your work in
spite of the dark days the world is passing through.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my deepest and abiding appreciation
of your devoted and indeed historic services. Perseverance will crown
your labours with imperishable glory. Rest assured, and never relax in
your efforts, which the rising generation will extol and admire. You are
often in my thoughts and prayers. I will always be glad to hear from
you, and will pray that your dearest hopes may be speedily and
completely realized.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

1 February 1942 \[John Eichenauer, Honduras\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of October 26th was received, and the Guardian wishes to
assure you that with very few exceptions all letters he receives are
answered, so that if you do not get a reply to a letter, it is because
either your or his letter is lost in the uncertain mails. Anyway he was
delighted by all the good news you conveyed, and has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

You have, indeed, been very blessed and privileged in the work you have
done these last years in Central America. The Guardian hopes that all
this presages still greater services in the future. You are now well
equipped with a knowledge of both the language and peoples of Central
America, and this should aid you all your life in achieving ever greater
victories for the Faith you love and which, already, has rewarded you by
rich confirmations and blessings.

The news you give, of the soundness, sincerity and devotion of the
Bahá’ís in the various centres you visited on your recent trip, greatly
cheered the Guardian. He hopes that this spring will witness the
establishment of more Spiritual Assemblies, as they are of such supreme
importance in fulfilling the Plan. Indeed, such united, organized, and
active spiritual centres will be of the utmost importance to the work of
the future – especially in view of the steadily worsening international
situation.

The Guardian assures you he will pray for your guidance and protection
during these difficult times, and for the divine confirmations for your
noble work.

> With Bahá’í love and greetings,
>
> Yours in the service of the Faith,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. All the clippings you enclosed, as well as the translations of them
and the photograph, were received. The Guardian was delighted by the
excellent spirit in which the Faith is being presented to the public.

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I was so pleased to receive your letter, for I long to keep in close
and constant touch with the beloved pioneers who are rendering such
great and historic services to the Cause. I feel proud of you all, am
constantly praying on your behalf, admire your courage and constancy and
cherish the brightest hopes for your future. Persevere, however great
the obstacles ahead, however dark the coming days. Bahá’u’lláh is your
Guide, your Sustainer, and Protector at all times and under all
conditions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1942 \[Louise Caswell, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of December 8th has just been received, and the Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

…

Your report of the work in Central America was most encouraging, and the
Guardian was very happy to receive it. The rapidity with which the work
of spreading the Faith is progressing is not only remarkable but an
abiding tribute to the devotion, loyalty, and perseverance of the
American Bahá’ís.

With each passing day the challenge grows greater. The obstacles are
more formidable now than when the Seven Year Plan was conceived. However
this but makes each victory more precious, each sacrifice more worthy!

No doubt also the tumultuous character of world events is opening the
eyes of people as never before, and rousing many souls who were hitherto
passive and indifferent, into active truth-seekers. It is these that
will reward the efforts of the believers with an ever-increasing
harvest.

The Guardian was pleased to hear that you now have a suitable
meeting-place in your home, and he hopes that the fine groundwork you
have laid will give rise to a firm, active and mature Bahá’í community.
Permanency is of the utmost importance in the teaching work in pioneer
fields, for we can never tell what storms these young communities may
have to weather by themselves in the future.

He assures you that his most loving prayers will continue to be offered
on your behalf, and for the success of your, and Mrs. Oliver’s noble
work.

> He will also pray for the protection and guidance of your son.
>
> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, abundantly and continually, the remarkable work
you are achieving in the service of His Faith, remove all obstacles,
however formidable, from your path, and enable you to add to the laurels
that you have admittedly won in His path,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 May 1942 \[Leonora Armstrong, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of March 24th was just received, and the Guardian
desires me to answer you at once on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear that you are busy with various Bahá’í
translation work, and that you hope to have a group gradually built up
in Recife to study the Faith.

He hopes that by correspondence — if you are not able to visit them — you
will encourage and endeavour to strengthen the Bahia Bahá’ís, so that
they will not fall permanently below Assembly status. It was a great
triumph for Brazil to have an Assembly, and he hopes that it will not
only be maintained, but new ones formed.

Brazil is the oldest South American Bahá’í country, so to speak, and he
hopes she will continue to shine amongst her sister Communities, now
growing and multiplying throughout that continent.

He hopes you will continue to report to him the work you are doing and
the news of the Cause in general there.

And he assures you of his continued loving prayers on your behalf and on
behalf of your husband.

With warm Bahá’í love,

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*You are often in my thoughts and prayers, and I deeply appreciate the
devotion, constancy, and care with which you promote the interests of
our dearly-beloved Faith. May the Master guide every step you take, and
fulfil every desire you cherish in the service of His glorious Cause.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 June 1942 \[Loulie Mathews, Honduras\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March the 11th was received last night, and the Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear from you, as you are often remembered by him,
and he has been following with keen interest the activities of your
latest contribution to the forward march of the Faith, namely Temerity
Ranch.

He was also very pleased to hear that you are helping the inter-America
work, as your own experiences in that field will no doubt be of great
value to those more newly initiated into its service.

No doubt as the Cause grows, and the believers composing it become more
spiritually mature, a much higher degree of efficient co-ordination of
the activities of the Faith will be achieved. We should view the Cause
in the light of a perfect system, operating as yet through very
imperfect instruments. Gradually, through the deepening of individual
spiritual consciousness and the general change the world itself must
undergo, the perfection of this divine system will become manifest and
fully operative.

All the news from the Americas — North and South — is good news these days,
and this greatly heartens the Guardian. The formation of ten Latin
American Assemblies is truly a great step forward, and one you can
yourself take a personal pride in, as you aided its realization!

The Guardian assures you, as well as your dear husband, of his continued
loving prayers.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I was so pleased to hear from you after such a long silence, and I
greatly appreciate the sentiments you have expressed. The work you have
achieved and initiated in recent years, and which you are now extending
and consolidating with such devotion, ability, loyalty and vigour is
truly historic and meritorious. I will pray for the success of every
effort you exert, and will always be glad to hear from you direct about
the progress of your manifold activities.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 June 1942 \[John Eichenauer, Honduras\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your most welcome letter of March the 11th has been safely received, as
well as the photographs and newspaper clippings you enclosed. The
Guardian has directed me to answer you on his behalf, and express his
deep satisfaction with all you are, and have been, accomplishing.

 

He was very pleased to see that your younger brother, Marshall, has been
so stirred by your exploits that he has followed you to South America,
and is actively aiding the work there. Young men such as yourselves, so
surprisingly dedicated to a movement which the uninitiated might
associate with mature people of a philosophical bent of mind, so free
from the current dissipated habits of most young people, are in a
position to capture the attention and respect of both young and old
alike. This Cause, although it embraces with equal esteem people of all
ages, has a special message and mission for the youth of your
generation. It is their charter for their future, their hope, their
guarantee of better days to come. Therefore the Guardian is especially
happy that the young Bahá’ís are active in the pioneer work. He hopes
your brother will feel the urge to go into pioneer work as you have.

 

The formation of your first Spiritual Assembly in Honduras was a source
of great joy to him, and he hopes you will do all in your power to
strengthen it and help it to function smoothly. It is the nucleus of all
community life, and requires often adjustment and sacrifice from all
concerned, until they learn how to function according to the higher laws
of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

The Guardian found the publicity you had received very sympathetic in
tone. If the South Americans have the courtesy, kindness, and warmth
expressed in these papers, as well as the deep capacity for faith and
steadfastness, so characteristic of the Latins, they should indeed make
wonderful Bahá’ís.

 

....

 

Assuring you of his most loving continued prayers on your behalf, and on
behalf of your brother,

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. The Guardian answered your last letter. He hopes by now his reply
has safely reached you.

 

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

 

*Your letters, as well as those received from the believers regarding
your historic services and accomplishments, fill me with pride, joy and
gratitude. I shall ever remember the great work you are achieving with
feelings of unqualified admiration. My fervent and continued prayers
surround and accompany you wherever you labour. Persevere, be happy and
thankful for so great a privilege and for so fine and enduring a record
of service to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

5 July 1942 \[Marie Poghaharian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 31st has just been received, and taken a very short
time on the way as you can see, and the beloved Guardian has instructed
me to answer you on his behalf.

He was especially made happy by the news you conveyed of the harmony and
love now prevailing in the Buenos Aires community. The great gift that
Bahá’u’lláh has brought to the world is unity, and only by the intensity
of the love of the believers for God, and for each other, can this unity
be established.

He has great hopes for the Latin American believers, because they are a
people who, by inheritance and tradition, are warm-hearted, spiritual as
well as intellectual, and form deep religious attachments. He feels sure
that as you all grow in knowledge of the teachings of the Faith and,
above all, practice its laws and principles, you will come to be a
shining example of Bahá’í community life to other Latin American
centres.

Already the rôle of the Buenos Aires friends is increasing in
importance; they are now able to aid nearby centres — like Montevideo — and
establish new groups, as well as the translation work which they have
aided and facilitated during the past two years.

He was very happy to hear that you are now on the Assembly. This is both
a great blessing for you, and will help you to grow in Bahá’í
experience. He hopes you will do all in your power, together with your
fellow-members, to preserve the happiness and harmony of the community’s
life, and to spread the teachings and strengthen the institutions of the
Faith in that city and in that land.

Assuring you of his continued loving prayers on your behalf, and on
behalf of your brother, and all the dear Buenos Aires friends,

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless abundantly and continually the efforts you are
so devotedly exerting for the promotion of our beloved Faith, and may He
enable you to aid in consolidating the centre which the dear and valued
friends in that city have now established. *

> *Your true brother, *
>
> *Shoghi*

26 July 1942 \[Carlos Porras, LSA of San José, Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of June 14th brought great joy to the heart of the Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The progress which the Bahá’ís of Costa Rica have made during the past
year is little short of astounding, and shows the deep receptivity the
people of that country have to the new message of God which Bahá’u’lláh
has proclaimed to the world. You must all indeed be both proud and
grateful that you live in a land so tolerant of progress, and which
enables you to establish the blessed institutions ordained by our Faith.

The establishment of the new Spiritual Assembly of Punta Arenas is a
great step forward, and the legal registration of the Cause and approval
of the government marks a milestone in the progress of the Cause not
only in Costa Rica but in Latin America.

The more the Guardian receives news from the Central and South American
republics, the more firmly he becomes convinced of the great capacity
possessed by the peoples of Latin America. They are proving themselves
to be both deeply spiritual and intellectual, and he cherishes the
greatest hopes for their future development and their contributions to
this glorious Faith of ours.

How wonderful that in less than a hundred years the message that
originated in the heart of Persia should have spread to the heart of
Central America, and kindled such love and devotion and hope as now
burns in the hearts of the new believers in that distant continent!

The Guardian hopes that you will not only succeed in establishing
further centres in your own native land, but that the activities of the
Costa Rican Bahá’ís will spread to neighbouring countries and aid in the
establishment of the Faith there.

He sends you, and all your devoted co-workers, the expression of his
warm and heartfelt love, and his high hopes for your further services in
our beloved Faith.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> Yours in the service of the blessed Faith,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I am thrilled by the news conveyed by your most welcome letter, which
is a striking testimony of the radiant spirit that so powerfully
animates you in the service of our glorious Faith. Your Assembly, and
indeed all the believers in Costa Rica, are often in my thoughts and
prayers. You have set an example which will inspire the rising
generation of Bahá’ís throughout Latin America. Posterity will extol
your pioneer services, and the Concourse on High bless and praise your
achievements. With joy, thankfulness, and unyielding resolve, persevere
in your noble task.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 July 1942 \[Marcia Steward, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of June 13th has just reached Haifa, and the Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was greatly pleased to receive the wonderful news that there are now
eighteen believers in Chile, and feels that you should be both proud and
happy over this notable accomplishment in the service of the Faith.…

The Guardian feels that, if your health permits, and the way opens for
you to go, there is at present no more meritorious way of serving our
beloved Cause than in the pioneer field, particularly in the Latin
American countries. The magnitude and full implications of the work
which you and your fellow pioneers are accomplishing is beyond your
power to grasp at present, but in the future it will be seen in its true
proportions, and your sacrifices and trials will seem to you utterly
insignificant in comparison to the glorious development of the Faith
which it was your privilege to help inaugurate.

The Guardian will always be happy to hear from you, and he wants you to
know his prayers are with you, and that he hopes you will go on to
accomplish even greater work in the future than in the past.

He will pray for the guidance and protection of the fine young believer,
Mr. Fillon, whose article you enclosed in your letter.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am thrilled by the news you give me, and I certainly urge you to
resume your historic task in Chile, if you find it at all possible. The
formation of an Assembly in that country will be an imperishable crown
for you, won in the service of this glorious Cause. I long to hear the
news of such a consummation, and I will pray for it from the depths of
my heart. Persevere in your magnificent and historic labours.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

2 August 1942 \[Uruguay\]

URGING ALL BELIEVERS TEACHERS REMAIN STEADFASTLY MAINTAIN SERVICES.

12 October 1942 \[Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The news you convey in your letter of August 22nd, which only recently
was received, brought great happiness to the heart of the Guardian.

He rejoices to see the progress the Cause and the believers are making
in Buenos Aires. The radio broadcasts, the hopeful prospects of a future
summer-school, the two new study groups in new centres, and the aid the
Buenos Aires friends hope to extend to Paraguay — all these are the
evidences of a deep spiritual vitality in the friends of Argentina, and
should cause you and all of them keen happiness!

The Guardian would be very happy to hear that you, or another friend,
had gone to the aid of the little group left in Paraguay by dear
Miss Cheney. He feels you should consult with the Spiritual Assembly
concerning the advisability of your going there for a time, and
strengthening the believers. They can best help you in this matter. If
they feel you should undertake such a trip, you have his full approval
in this matter.

...

He was happy to hear of the active devotion of your brother to the
Faith, and wishes you to assure him, too, of his most loving prayers.

With the help of Mrs. Collins, a very outstanding and devoted believer,
he is sure the Cause will make ever greater progress in the great
republic of the south, Argentina.

> With Bahá’í love and greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless continually your devoted and incessant labours in
the Divine Vineyard, and enable you to render, in virgin fields,
whenever feasible, outstanding and historic services, *

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 January 1943

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of October 23rd has been received, and the Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has often thought of you and followed with interest such reports as
he received concerning your pioneer labours in far-off ... , and he was
very pleased to get your letter and hear of the small but devoted group
of believers you have succeeded in gathering together, a group which he
hopes will expand into a flourishing Assembly.

He realizes your desire to get married is quite a natural one, and he
will pray that God will assist you to find a suitable companion with
whom you can be truly happy and united in the service of the Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh has urged marriage upon all people as the natural and
rightful way of life. He has also, however, placed strong emphasis on
its spiritual nature, which, while in no way precluding a normal
physical life, is the most essential aspect of marriage. That two people
should live their lives in love and harmony is of far greater importance
than that they should be consumed with passion for each other. The one
is a great rock of strength on which to lean in time of need; the other
a purely temporary thing which may at any time die out.

He will pray for your true happiness and the solution of all your
problems, as well as for the progress of the noble work you are carrying
on in that land.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and prized co-worker:*

*Your letter refreshed and heartened me, and rejoiced my soul, and I
assure you I will, fervently and continually, pray for you, that all the
hopes you cherish may be fully realized, that you may find true and
enduring happiness, and that you may be able to establish a Local
Assembly in ..., and thus render a memorable and historic service to the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. Rest assured and persevere.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 February 1943 \[Eve Nicklin, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of October 24th has just been received, together with that
of Philip, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

He was very happy to hear that you are now well established in Peru, and
he hopes that ere long you will be able to confirm some of the Peruvians
in the Faith, and thus start an active and devout nucleus of the Cause
of God there.

You may be sure the Guardian will offer his ardent and loving prayers on
your behalf in the Holy Shrines, that sincere and devout souls may be
led to you and to accept the Divine Message.

He will be pleased to hear from you and of your work there and those
whom you contact.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I deeply appreciate your high endeavours and the spirit that so
admirably animates you in the service of our beloved Faith. You are
often in my thoughts and prayers as you labour in that far-off land.
Persevere in your glorious task, and rest assured that the Beloved will
abundantly reward you for your meritorious services.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

8 April 1943 \[Virginia Orbison, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of October 16th has been safely received, and the Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear that ten Bahá’ís were able to gather at the
Feast held during Mrs. Collins’ visit, as this seems to forecast the
speedy formation of a Spiritual Assembly in that important and distant
land.

Mrs. Collins’ wonderful spirit has been of help to the friends wherever
she visited, and the Guardian was very pleased that she could make this
trip to South America. He feels sure it has strengthened the Bahá’í work
wherever she was able to stop.

Please assure all the believers in Santiago of the Guardian’s deep and
abiding interest in the progress of the Faith in their land, of his
loving appreciation of their services, and his ardent prayers on their
behalf.

He will particularly pray for the success of your own devoted labours,
for your guidance, and protection.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your letter brought great and abiding joy to my heart. I am delighted,
thankful and proud of your services and of the services rendered by your
dear co-workers. You are often in my thoughts and prayers. Persevere,
joyfully and resolutely, in your glorious task, and rest assured that
the Beloved is well pleased with you.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 April 1943 \[Chile\]

Overjoyed grateful fervently praying continued success deepest love.[^3]
shoghi rabbani

3 May 1943 \[Chile\]

To the Bahá’ís of Santiago through

> the secretary, Sra. Millicent Bravo

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving message, dated October 3rd, 1942, reached the Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to receive, more recently, the wonderful news of the
formation of a Bahá’í Spiritual Assembly in Santiago, and he wishes you
all rich blessings in your service to the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.

You must all feel very happy and proud that God has raised you up to
serve His Cause in that new and promising land in the South, and no
doubt, as time goes by, the people of Latin America will greatly enrich
the Bahá’í world with their devotion, their talents, and their services.

The Guardian hopes that, if it is feasible, the Bahá’ís of Chile will
send a representative to the 1944 All-America Centenary Bahá’í
Convention to be held in the Bahá’í House of Worship in Wilmette. It
would be a great stimulus to your work, and also greatly rejoice the
hearts of your fellow-Bahá’ís in the United States and Canada. The
believers of North and South America must become as one soul in many
bodies, and be an example to others of that oneness of mankind which
Bahá’u’lláh has come to establish.

He will ardently pray for the progress of the teaching work in Santiago,
and for the happiness and welfare of you all.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless richly and continually your magnificent efforts,
protect, sustain, and cheer you at all times, and graciously assist you
to consolidate the foundations of your truly remarkable and meritorious
achievements,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 June 1943 \[Josephine Kruka, Jean Silver, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters of May 1st were received, and the Guardian was delighted to
hear that dear Miss Silver has at last succeeded in going forth to
pioneer in Latin America, and is now actively aiding Miss Kruka and the
Havana Bahá’ís.

The tremendous amount of work the Guardian has to do at present is
curtailing, perforce, his correspondence; that is why he has instructed
me to answer you both in the same letter, knowing you will understand
his preoccupations at present.

The coming Centenary of our Faith is making great demands on his time
and strength, and he cherishes the brightest hopes for a most glorious
celebration in the Temple in Wilmette, next May. He hopes that you will
both be present on that memorable occasion, and that, if possible, one
of the Havanan believers will also be able to attend and partake of the
joy of that mighty and happy gathering. It will greatly add to the
blessedness of the occasion to have native South American believers
present whenever feasible.

He deeply appreciates the way Miss Kruka is doing all in her power to
keep up the translation work; he fully realizes how difficult it is at
present to carry on such work.

You may be assured his most loving prayers will be offered on your
behalf, and on behalf of all the dear Cuban Bahá’ís, in the Holy
Shrines, and he trusts that now you are working there together the Cause
will go ahead even faster than in the past.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Many thanks for the photographs of you both, as well as of the dear
friends. How wonderful to have so many young people and children in the
Faith there!

*May the Beloved bless your pioneer activities, guide your steps, cheer
your hearts, and graciously assist you to promote effectively the
manifold interests of His Faith, and its infant institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 July 1943 \[Virginia Orbison, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated November 6th, 1942, which arrived in April, only, and
May 9th have been received, together with enclosures, and the Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

It has greatly rejoiced his heart to know that Chile now has a Spiritual
Assembly, and, indeed, a Bahá’í community as well!

We are at last beginning to see the first tangible responses to
Bahá’u’lláh’s words addressed in the Aqdas to the presidents of the
American republics! The lights of the Faith are kindling in these
distant lands and will shine, no doubt, with a wonderful brilliance in
the days to come.

He is hoping that with the marked progress already made and the calibre
of people attracted to the Faith in that country, the Republic of Chile
will soon become one of the strongest Latin American outposts of the
Cause and be able to sustain the teaching work in other nearby lands.

Please assure all the members of this first historic Spiritual Assembly,
and the other believers as well, of the Guardian’s loving prayers for
their progress and their work in the Faith.

He assures you of his prayers and his deep appreciation of the wonderful
work you are accomplishing.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*The work in which you are engaged, and which you are accomplishing with
such devotion and love, is indeed historic, and I pray that glorious
success may crown your efforts. Persevere in your meritorious labours,
and rest assured that the Beloved will sustain, guide and bless you in
your services to His Cause and its divinely appointed institutions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 July 1943 \[Ruth and Ellsworth Blackwell, Haiti\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter of Naw-Rúz 1943 was received by the Guardian, and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was thrilled to see the pictures of the Spiritual Assembly of Haiti
and the fine youth group they have there, and he wants you to know that
he is very proud of, and happy over, your achievements in this pioneer
field. You must indeed rejoice with all your heart that God has enabled
you to render His Cause so valuable a service in such days as these!

The Guardian wishes you to keep in close touch by mail with the dear
friends whom you have brought into the Faith and thus go on attracting
and inspiring them and helping them.

He feels sure you will now, enriched by this invaluable experience, go
on serving the Cause in America in many fields of Bahá’í activity. You
may be sure his loving prayers will be offered on your behalf, that you
may render yet greater services in the years to come.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I feel truly proud of your achievements. You have rendered a service to
the Cause for which you should be eternally grateful. I would advise you
to keep in close and constant touch with your spiritual children, and to
encourage and guide them by every means at your disposal. Please assure
them, one and all, of my special prayers for their spiritual
advancement. I will place their photograph in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh
in the close neighbourhood of His holy Tomb, and will supplicate Him to
enable them to render distinguished services to His Faith.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 July 1943 \[Marcia Atwater, Chile\]

Delighted prospect establish outpost Faith Magellanes. Longing
realization may victory be yours love.

24 July 1943 \[Marcia Atwater, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March 2nd, with photos and clipping enclosed, was
received and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very pleased to hear you are back in Chile, and actively helping
the friends there and reinforcing the foundation of the newly
established Spiritual Assembly. If you can arrange to go to Magallanes
he thinks it would be, indeed, a great service to the Cause during this
last year of our first Bahá’í Century.

... Our life is in the Cause of God, and we draw our strength from it,
and the world of the Cause is a world of light.

The Guardian is very pleased with the manner in which you have
whole-heartedly devoted yourself to the promotion of our beloved Faith,
and he wants you to be happy and confident and ignore any unpleasant
occurrences that may take place in the course of your teaching work.
Everyone encounters such things, but they must not allow them to deter
them from their purpose or discourage them.

He assures you his loving prayers will be offered for the success of
your noble work.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my keen sense of admiration and
gratitude for the work which you and your dear co-workers are achieving
in Chile. To establish an outpost of the Faith in Magallanes, ere the
termination of the first Bahá’í century, would be a glorious
achievement. I pray fervently that it may be accomplished. You are often
in my thoughts and prayers. Persevere in your historic and meritorious
labours. Be happy and confident.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 September 1943

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 5th recently reached the Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian would advise you (though in view of the time that has
elapsed since you wrote to him you may already have decided on a course
of action) to seek to obtain as good a position as possible in ... (or
any other South American city), and gradually pay off your debts while
at the same time fulfilling the task you set out to do, namely to
strengthen the teaching work in South America. Perhaps you could obtain
from your creditors an extension of time in which to pay them off and
thus pay less monthly.

Even if you have made mistakes in the past you need not make them again,
and instead of feeling depressed you should profit by experience and set
yourself resolutely to manage your life more capably in the future. No
doubt God will help you to do this if you seek His aid in prayer and
through action.

The Guardian will pray for the solution of your problems, and that you
may render the Cause active and much-needed services.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved protect, guide, and bless you always, enable you to
overcome all obstacles, and render the Faith and its institutions
distinguished services,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 October 1943

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated April 4th and July 25th, together with the
photographs you enclosed and report of believers attending the various
meetings, have been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

…

The Guardian will certainly pray for your guidance, and that your work
may be blessed and fruitful. He does not feel that you should allow
yourself to get so discouraged, either with yourself or with others.
When we see before us the ideal state of the believers, we naturally get
discouraged with their present condition. But we should always remember
how far they have already come from the old standards, and how dark the
world, with all its evil influences, is around them.

As the centenary of our Faith approaches, the Guardian finds himself
more and more busy. That is why he did not immediately reply to your
first letter. However, he wishes you to keep in touch with him, and let
him know how you find the friends there.

> With the assurance of his loving thoughts and prayers,
>
> Yours, with Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, Whose Cause you are serving with such
devotion, perseverance, and ability, guide every step you take, sustain
you in your admirable and meritorious efforts, and enable you to render
memorable services to its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 November 1943 \[Leonora Armstrong, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of June 15th has been received, a short time ago, and the
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

Although he is terribly busy, as you can well imagine, during these last
few months of our first Bahá’í Century, he was very happy to hear from
you and from the evidently sweet and sincere girl who enclosed a letter
in yours — Miss ….

 

The Guardian has written her that he feels she should not leave Bahia if
her departure will jeopardize the Spiritual Assembly’s existence, as you
say that she is the 9th member there. However, if the believers there
have increased in number, he feels it would be highly meritorious for
her to go and help the work in some South American Republic which needs
pioneers to strengthen the Bahá’í teachings there. No doubt you can
advise and help this young soul to do what is best.

 

The way the Cause has leapt ahead, both in North and South America, this
last year is truly inspiring and the Guardian is very proud of the
American believers’ achievements and the steadfast devotion they are
showing in the face of many difficulties.

 

If you could manage to attend the 1944 Convention it would be a
wonderful experience for you, and one you richly deserve after so many
years of dedicated service to our beloved Faith. He will pray the way
may open, God willing, for you to do so.

 

The visit of dear Philip Sprague was, indeed, of great help to the work
in South America, and the Guardian is happy to know you were able to
work together in Bahia — the Mother Assembly of South America.

 

He will pray that your tireless teaching efforts may meet with success
in Recife, and for your happiness and welfare in every way.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. As this paper is heavy I have addressed Miss …’s letter to your
address; fearing otherwise the two letters might not reach safely.

 

> R. R.

 

*May the Beloved bless continually your efforts, remove all obstacles
from your path, enable you to consolidate the newly-constituted Assembly
in Bahia, and promote, in a most effective manner, the manifold
interests of our beloved Faith,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

10 November 1943 \[Cuba\]

The Spiritual Assembly

of the Bahá’ís of Havana

Dear Bahá’í Brothers and Sisters:

Your letter of September 19th has been received, and the beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear from you all, and to see the way our beloved
Cause has taken root in the hearts of the people of Cuba. The Latin
races have always been distinguished by their intelligence and religious
nature, and he hopes that the Cause all over the world will greatly
benefit by this influx of South American believers who are so devoted to
it, so spiritual and so enthusiastic.

Unfortunately the Guardian will not be able to attend the Convention in
1944. His duties in Haifa are far too pressing for him to leave this
country and journey so far away. But his thoughts will constantly be
with the friends on that historic occasion, and he hopes that one, at
least, of the Cuban believers will be able to attend the celebrations in
Wilmette.

These days he has a tremendous amount of work to do, as the Bahá’ís East
and West are increasing their activities during this last year of our
first century. Indeed the work they are achieving, in spite of the war,
is truly remarkable and a testimony to the way God helps those who arise
to serve His Cause.

He will pray for you all in the Holy Shrines, and he wishes you to know
that the wonderful way the Cause is developing in Cuba rejoices his
heart, and raises in him great hopes for the future of the Faith in that
country.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. The photograph which you enclosed was very interesting and the
Guardian is delighted to see the faces of so many fine young people in
the group.

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I am delighted to receive your most welcome message and learn of your
activities to which I attach the utmost importance. I will, I assure
you, pray for you from the depths of my heart, that your numbers may
increase, that your understanding may deepen, that your unity may be
cemented, and that your highest hopes may be fulfilled in the service of
His Faith.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 January 1944 \[Chile\]

VERY PLEASED REPORTS TEACHING WORK. PERSEVERE FERVENTLY PRAYING LOVE.

21 January 1944

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated October 29th has just been received (about a week
ago), and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very pleased to hear that you are now in a better position than
when you last wrote him, and your mind thus at rest regarding your
obligations.

He was also happy to hear that you find the … friends so firm in the
Faith and so devoted to its interests, and that they are, in spite of
their handicaps, shouldering their responsibilities as the leading
Bahá’í community in South America.

The Guardian is very anxious that as many of the South and Central
American Bahá’í delegates should attend the Convention next spring as
possible. The presence of these Latin American friends will be a great
addition to that memorable occasion, and afford them an opportunity of
seeing the first Western House of Worship and the portrait of the
blessed Báb, as well as of meeting with their fellow-Bahá’ís in North
America. He hopes the Buenos Aires community will exert their utmost to
send their delegate, in spite of the great distance and the difficulties
involved.

Regarding your questions about the advisability of your marrying the
person you mention in your letter: The Guardian feels this is a purely
personal affair; however, he will supplicate that this young man may
draw nearer to our beloved Faith, and that you may be guided to do that
which will lead to your greatest happiness and your fullest service in
the Cause.

He assures you he will pray for you, for the teaching work in Argentina,
and for all the dear friends there.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He was delighted to hear of the publication of the Esslemont book
and the visits of travelling pioneers.

*May the Beloved of our hearts guide, sustain and protect you always,
remove every obstacle form your path, and graciously assist you to
promote effectively the vital interests of His Faith and its new-born
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 January 1944 \[Marcia Steward, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated September 26th, October 9th, and November 10th,
together with newspaper clippings you enclosed, have reached the
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He has been so pleased to hear of your safe arrival in Magallanes, and
that you find yourself at home there and the people friendly and
receptive to our beloved Faith.

He has instructed the National Spiritual Assembly to help and, if
feasible, reinforce you by sending another pioneer, as he has always
attached great importance to the establishment of the Cause in that
distant southern city, and is most anxious that a group, if possible,
may be formed there of Bahá’ís ere the expiry of our first century.

Regarding your question of how long you should remain there: The
Guardian feels that it is not necessary for you to stay until an
Assembly is formed, but that if you can manage it, it is highly
desirable for you to remain until a firm group is established which can
carry on after you leave.

You also ask the question of whether it is all right for you to write an
article on the Guardian: There is no objection to your doing so, but
generally speaking he prefers the friends to dwell on the personality of
the beloved Master and on the teachings’ cardinal principles.

…

He assures you of his most loving prayers on your behalf, for your
happiness, and the success of your devoted labours in the Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He was very pleased to hear in your last letter of the progress in
Santiago, and that the friends are planning to send a delegate to the
Convention. He attaches great importance to as many of the Latin
American delegates attending as is humanly possible. He also assures you
he will pray for those you mention in your letter….

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am deeply touched by, and feel profoundly grateful for, your
immediate and exemplary response to my request. The Bahá’ís, wherever
informed, will be thrilled to hear of the historic enterprise on which
you have embarked. I have already informed the friends in ‘Iráq and
Persia, and sent them the envelope bearing the stamp and name of that
far away city, as a clear evidence of the high accomplishments of the
American believers. Persevere in your meritorious labours, however great
the sacrifices required. The Beloved is well pleased with you and is
watching over you. Be happy.*

> *Shoghi*

11 February 1944 \[Virginia Orbison, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated August 25th has reached the Guardian, as you can see,
after a long delay.

He is very pleased to receive news of the Cause in Asunción, and he
hopes that your stay there will be instrumental in bringing new souls
into the Faith and deepening the foundation already laid by dear
Elizabeth Cheney.

The news he receives from other Bahá’ís in South America is likewise
very encouraging and indicates a brilliant future ahead of these new
centres in the second Bahá’í century.

He will pray for the confirmation of the souls you are teaching there,
and that an Assembly may be speedily established.

You may be sure he will also continue to pray for the success of your
tireless and devoted labours, which he deeply appreciates.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Since writing the above your letter from La Paz, dated
December 14th has been received, and the Guardian was very happy to hear
you left a large and strong group of Bahá’ís in Paraguay….

> Please convey his loving greetings to the Bolivian believers. He is
> very happy to hear you have found them firm and active.

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious efforts, guide every step you
take in the service of His glorious Faith, reward you abundantly for
your high endeavours, and fulfil every wish you cherish for the
advancement of its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 April 1944 \[Peru\]

OVERJOYED GRATEFUL HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS DEEPEST LOVE.[^4]

23 April 1944 \[Marcia Atwater, Chile\]

ADVISE REMAIN PUNTA ARENAS UNTIL A PIONEER CAN REPLACE YOU. ASSURE
SANTIAGO ASSEMBLY LOVING PRAYERS.

15 May 1944

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March 21st has been received, together with the excellent
clipping on the Faith which you enclosed, and the Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He does not feel that you should be discouraged or feel you have failed
in your duty. The first believers of … are the fruits of your labours,
and your sojourn there has laid the foundation on which others can now
build.

He was very pleased to hear you are returning in time for the Centenary
celebrations, and he hopes you will by all means continue to translate
the Bahá’í books as there will be a tremendous need for them after the
war.

You may be sure he will pray that in whatever field of Bahá’í service
you are active your labours may be blessed and rewarded. He has deeply
appreciated your selfless and persevering work in the pioneer field, and
hopes in the States you will still be able to pioneer in some place that
needs help.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*With the assurance of my abiding and profound appreciation and
gratitude for the zeal, the steadfastness, the devotion and fidelity
with which you have promoted, in the pioneer field, the interests of our
beloved Faith, and wishing you, from the depths of my heart,
ever-increasing success in your translation work and teaching activities
in the future,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 May 1944 \[Josephine Kruka, Jean Silver, United States\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

The Guardian was truly proud of the news you conveyed in your letter to
him dated February 7th and recently received.

 

The splendid progress the Cause has made in Havana, the way the local
believers are devoted and active, the radio broadcasts and newspaper
publicity, and the good news that Sr. Ginés was elected delegate to the
convention — all brought joy to his heart. He feels sure that these
results would not have been obtained if the Havana believers and the
pioneers had not been so united, for we know the divine blessings flow
from the unity of the friends.

 

… He has been very sorry these last years that, due to wartime
restrictions, he was not able to help finance the pioneer work, as no
funds could be sent outside the sterling bloc.

 

He feels that both of you pioneers should return to Cuba and continue
helping the devoted local community, and also gradually extend your
activities to other Cuban towns in the hope of establishing new centres.

 

Regarding Miss Kruka’s question about the intercalary days: These days
will have the same names as any other Bahá’í days of the week according
to the dates on which they fall.

 

Please convey his deep love to all the Bahá’ís there, and he assures you
and them that he will pray for the progress of the work in Cuba, and
that you all may be richly blessed by Bahá’u’lláh.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. He thanks you for the clipping and the snapshots you enclosed.

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*I was delighted to receive your most welcome message. I feel truly
proud of your achievements. I am deeply grateful for your incessant and
noble exertions. I will continue to pray from the depths of my heart for
the extension of your valued activities. Persevere, nay redouble, in
your efforts, and rest assured the Beloved will richly bless your noble
exertions.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

29 May 1944 \[Eve Nicklin, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of April 23rd reached the Guardian, and the news you
convey in it of the spread of the beloved Faith brought him great joy.

The formation of an Assembly in Peru was indeed a great victory, and
added to the chain of Central and South American Bahá’í centres another
precious link.

He is so happy over the work accomplished by the valiant
pioneers — yourself included in that category! — and so proud of the record
of the American believers’ achievements: an Assembly in every province
and state of North America and a centre in every Latin republic — and so
many centres Spiritual Assemblies!

Please convey to the dear Peruvian believers his loving greetings and
assure them of his prayers for the consolidation of their work there for
the Holy Faith.

He will especially pray for you in the Shrines, and he is deeply
appreciative of all you have done for the Cause these last few years in
Peru.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your steadfastness, your devotion, your historic services are assets
that I greatly value. I will fervently pray that the Beloved may bless
your efforts, guide your steps, cheer your heart and fulfil your dearest
wish in His service. Persevere in your high endeavours and rest assured
and be happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 July 1944 \[Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated January 27th, April 25th, and May 5th have been
received and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on
his behalf.

The news of the formation of the Spiritual Assembly there greatly
rejoiced his heart, as you already know. It is practically impossible
for those who take part in these first stirrings of the world order of
Bahá’u’lláh in new lands to properly estimate their value and place in
history.

He has been greatly overburdened with work these last few years, and
that is why his correspondence — particularly during the months preceding
the Centenary — has often had to wait upon more important matters. That is
why he has not answered your letters earlier, particularly that in which
you and … ask his advice about your marriage.

He does not interfere in such intimate personal matters; but he sees no
reason why you should not join your lives in service to the Faith, as
long as you both desire to do so. Bahá’u’lláh has upheld marriage as a
most sacred and praiseworthy institution, and surely there is no better
or more beautiful bond that can unite the hearts of two people than a
common love for God and His work.

He will pray for your guidance and happiness and also for all the
believers you mention in your letters.

With the assurance of his best wishes for you both, and his loving
greetings,

> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I deeply appreciate your meritorious and persistent efforts, and am
deeply grateful for the spirit that animates you in the service of our
beloved Faith. Persevere in your noble task, and rest assured that I
will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 August 1944 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of June 21st reached the beloved Guardian and he has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very pleased that you wrote him and have thus given him an
opportunity of himself welcoming you into our beloved Faith. Your name
has often been mentioned in letters from the friends, and he greatly
values your intense love for and devotion to our beloved Faith and its
life-giving teachings.

He will certainly pray that both your daughter and husband may be led to
embrace the Cause and join you in serving it.

He will also pray that the way may open for you to serve it in ever
wider fields, even some day, God willing, in your beloved France. The
French people have a great capacity for religious feeling, and the
Guardian hopes that after their great sufferings during this war their
hearts will gradually become receptive to this Divine Message which
alone can heal the ills of all mankind. Meantime he urges you to
persevere in teaching the Faith there in Bolivia.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, cheer your heart,
and fulfil your dearest wish in the service of our glorious Faith and
its God-given institutions.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 August 1944

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to acknowledge the receipt of
your letters dated December 7th 1943 (two), February 21st, March 2nd and
May 2nd and 18th 1944.

He has been so hard pressed for time the last 18 months that his
correspondence has had, perforce, to wait upon more important matters.
Otherwise he would have replied to your letters sooner. ...

He does not want you to feel for a moment that you have failed; your
presence in ... at the end of our first Bahá’í Century meant that the
light of the Faith had penetrated there, the first foundation been laid.
Now an Assembly can be formed in the future based on your work.

Also he does not want you to brood upon the past. The very nature of the
bond binding believers together opens them to suffering and test and
trial. The thing the friends must strive for most is unity — particularly
in the new Centres of Central and South America. Love, an infinite
degree of patience and forbearance, are necessary, and he feels sure
that when you return to ... you will be of great help to the work there
in these ways. The purpose of the Cause is to weave extremes together in
the indestructible fabric of one common Faith. There is room for every
type and every personality as long as the individual is sincere and
firmly grounded in the fundamentals of the Cause.

There are dark forces in the world today of despair and hatred and
suspicion; the believers must, as the Master said, turn their backs on
these and their faces to Him, confident of His help and protection.

He wants to assure you that when circumstances permit you are most
welcome to visit Haifa in the future. Also his loving and special
prayers are offered on your behalf, for your work, your health and your
happiness.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He will pray for those whom you mention in your letters and
particularly for the confirmations of

Bahá’u’lláh to descend upon the Spiritual Assembly of....

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to add a few words in person and assure you of my deep and
abiding appreciation of your marvellous perseverance, your exemplary
devotion, and your notable services to the Faith. You are often in my
thoughts and prayers, and I feel truly proud of the spirit that animates
you. Persevere, no matter how great the obstacles, and be assured and
happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 August 1944

 

To the dearly-loved Latin American

> Bahá’í Delegates who gathered in
>
> Wilmette, Ill. July 15th, 1944
>
> (Kindness of Mrs. Gayle Woolson)

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of July 15th written by Mrs. Woolson, and signed by all the
Latin American believers and pioneers who attended the special
conference arranged for the Central and South American representatives,
July 9th to 16th, has been received by the beloved Guardian with great
joy, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

It has been a source of great satisfaction to him that so many of the
friends from Latin America were able to visit the Temple and to meet
with their North American brothers and sisters. He feels sure that this
association in the bonds of Bahá’í love will be productive of
far-reaching results in the Western Hemisphere. It is the first time in
Bahá’í history that so many duly appointed representatives of so many
independent countries have gathered together, and it foreshadows the
gatherings of the future, when the believers from the four corners of
the globe will gather to discuss plans for the beloved Cause and to
exchange ideas and suggestions.

 

He hopes that in the Latin American countries the Faith will now spread
at a rapid pace. He feels that there is a great future in the Cause
ahead of these new and vital Central and South American republics, and
he is most anxious that the native believers (of Spanish, Portuguese,
Indian or mixed stock) should themselves be active in spreading the
teachings as travellers, pioneers, administrators and teachers.

 

He wishes to assure each and every one of you of his most loving and
ardent prayers offered on your behalf in the Holy Shrines. He looks
forward with longing to the day when he can greet you personally, and
meantime asks you to convey his warm greetings to all the believers in
your respective countries.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

 

*The many and varied services you have rendered our beloved Faith are
highly meritorious and unforgettable. You are often in my thoughts and
prayers, and I cherish great and bright hopes for your future activities
in the service of our beloved Faith. Persevere in your noble task, be
happy, grateful and confident.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

17 October 1944 \[Argentina\]

Bahá’í Youth Committee of

> Buenos Aires

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your warm letter of July 13th,
together with the copy of the news letter you are publishing there, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is pleased to see you have undertaken this work under the auspices of
the Spiritual Assembly, and he wishes you every success in it.

Your youth group has the opportunity of doing great work for the Cause
there, and he urges you to persevere, study the teachings deeply,
develop yourselves as public speakers (in so far as possible) and seek
to attract other young people to your meetings.

You may be sure his loving prayers will be offered for you all and for
the progress of your devoted labours for the beloved Cause.

> With warm Bahá’í love and greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. The photograph of the group was also received and the letter in
Spanish dated July 9th.

P.S. The Guardian urges you to answer the Persian Bahá’í Youth Committee
as it will greatly encourage them….

*May the Beloved of our hearts bless your meritorious efforts, guide
every step you take in the path of service, and enable you to promote at
all times the vital interests of His Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

13 December 1944 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Although the beloved Guardian has a great deal to do and many heavy
problems to solve in carrying on the work of our Faith, still he was so
pleased at the good news you conveyed to him in your letter of
October 24th that he has instructed me to answer you at once.

He wishes to welcome your dear husband into our world-wide Bahá’í
Community and to express his appreciation of the translation work he has
undertaken. He suggests that he inform the Inter-America Committee of
his work.

He was also very pleased to hear your daughter is so sympathetic to the
Faith and hopes she will, like her father, become an active builder of
the new spiritual order of Bahá’u’lláh.

He assures you of his loving prayers for you all and for the rapid
spread of the Cause in Bolivia, a land which surely must have a great
future.

He was interested to learn that a Theosophist has recently joined the
Cause there. The Theosophists have always been the friends of the
Bahá’ís and many of them have accepted the Faith. Please convey Shoghi
Effendi’s greetings to this new member.

> With Bahá’í love, yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I was so pleased to hear from you, and I wish to assure you in person
of my deep appreciation of the spirit that animates you, of my special
prayers for your success and spiritual advancement, and of my attachment
to the dear workers who are so devotedly labouring in that distant
land.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 December 1944 \[Artemus Lamb, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letters dated August 2nd, September 4th, and October 12th have been
received and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

He waited to get news of your work in Chile and Punta Arenas before
replying to your previous letters, and a few days ago your very welcome
letter from Magallanes came, giving him the good news of conditions
there and of the prospects for the future and rapid development of the
Cause. He feels that the plan you and Mrs. Atwater have made of your
remaining there and consolidating the excellent work she has so
painstakingly accomplished, while she proceeds to Santiago to help the
Assembly and strengthen the community, is very sound and he fully
approves of it.

He sees no objection to your joint plan of starting a bookstore (or
stores) in Chile, providing you both feel that such an enterprise will
be successful from a business point of view. He has always approved of
the idea of pioneers becoming financially independent as far as possible
and thus doing away with the impression of our having paid teachers.

Also he heartily approves of your sister, Mrs. Thornton, joining you in
Chile and serving thus in the South American field.

You have entered a new phase of your Bahá’í life, and you may be sure
that you will very often be remembered in his prayers in the Shrines,
that Bahá’u’lláh may richly bless your efforts and guide you in your
teaching work.

He deeply values the devoted enthusiasm which animates both you and dear
Mrs. Atwater.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He was sorry to hear of the accident which befell your ship and
caused you to lose all your things!

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am delighted to learn that you have at last reached your goal and are
wholeheartedly engaged in your noble pioneer work in that far distant
land. You are, I assure you, often in my thoughts and prayers, and I
supplicate the Beloved from the depths of my heart to guide every step
you take, to sustain you in your high endeavours and to crown, through
the formation of a Spiritual Assembly, your immediate efforts with
marvellous and enduring success.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 December 1944 \[Artemus Lamb, Chile\]

Delighted news arrival heartily approve sister joining you. Fervently
praying early formation Assembly loving gratitude.

8 February 1945 \[Bahá’ís of Quito, Ecuador\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of December 12th has been received and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Your loving and loyal sentiments towards the devoted pioneer — Mr. John
Stearns — who left his homeland in order to spread the Message of
Bahá’u’lláh in your country greatly touched and pleased Shoghi Effendi.

The services of these sincere and dedicated souls who have arisen to
serve their fellow men with selfless hearts cannot be overestimated, and
it is fitting that their names and their example should be cherished by
those people to whose lands they have brought the healing remedy of our
Faith.

It is the Guardian’s hope that in the near future the Faith in South and
Central America will have grown so strong that the native Bahá’ís of
these Latin American countries will be able to supply pioneers to spread
the Message in more cities and towns and amongst the Indian population.

He assures you all that he will ardently pray for the success of your
devoted labours for the Cause and for the speedy establishment of a
large and flourishing Community there.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dearly-beloved friends:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my deep and loving appreciation of
your high endeavours in the service of our beloved Faith, and of my
fervent prayers for the extension of your valued activities. You are
often in my thoughts and prayers. Rest assured, persevere and be happy.*

> Your true and grateful brother,
>
> Shoghi

1 March 1945 \[Virginia Orbison, Ecuador, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letters dated September 17th, November 11th, and
January 25th have been received, together with the clippings you
enclosed, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his
behalf. He would have replied sooner, but he has had many important and
pressing things to attend to lately.

He was very encouraged by the favourable reports you give of the way the
Cause is progressing in Bolivia and also Ecuador. He would be immensely
pleased if a firm and flourishing Assembly in Sucre could be developed
in the near future. To have more than one administrative centre in a
country is a great stimulus to the Faith, and leads a step further in
the direction of these Latin republics eventually having their own
National Spiritual Assemblies.

He will certainly remember, in his prayers at the Holy Threshold, all
those whom you have mentioned in your letters — it is a wonderful
privilege for you pioneers to touch the receptive souls with the wand of
faith and see them come alive in the Cause of God!

The valiant and selfless services of dear John Stearns will not be
forgotten, and the country is indeed blessed where a pioneer not only
taught but remained and died still loving and glorifying his Faith.

He assures you again of his loving prayers on your behalf, for the
success of your devoted labours and the solution of your personal
problems. He will also pray for … , that Bahá’u’lláh may guide and
strengthen him in His Path.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your notable services, so devotedly and energetically rendered to the
Cause of God in distant fields, are, I assure you, deeply appreciated
and highly meritorious in the sight of God. You are often in my thoughts
and prayers, and I will continue to supplicate the Beloved to bless your
efforts, guide your steps, and fulfil your heart’s desire in the service
of this glorious Cause.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 March 1945 \[Artemus Lamb, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letters dated November 29th and January 11th (1945) have been
received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on
his behalf.

He was delighted to receive the news you conveyed of the excellent
foundation you have found already laid in Chile for the spread and
consolidation of the Faith. Mrs. Steward’s labours have certainly been
exemplary, and he hopes they will bear a rich harvest in the days to
come.

He was also very pleased to learn that Mr. Canales has gone to Punta
Arenas. This is a sure sign of the vitality of the faith of these new
Latin centres — the way they are producing their own workers and pioneers.
You may rest assured that his prayers will certainly sustain you both in
your efforts to establish an Assembly there in April of this year.

He is happy to see you are planning to remain in Chile, for some time at
least, and that your mother and sister are joining you there. The more
the friends visit each other from distant countries the better. They
demonstrate the unity of the Faith and add a fresh stimulus to the local
workers.

His prayers will be offered for you in the Holy Shrines, and he deeply
appreciates the services you are rendering the beloved Faith in that
distant and important field.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your meritorious efforts in such a distant field,
and guide your steps, and sustain you at all times to overcome all
obstacles, and proclaim the vitalizing truths of His Revelation and
establish the administrative basis of His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 April 1945 \[Marcia Steward, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated July 3rd, September 14th, October 12th, November 19th
and 25th, and December 29th, all 1944, have been received, and the
beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf. The
photographs of the Santiago Assembly and friends were also received
(that enclosed in your letter and those under separate cover), as well
as the clippings from Punta Arenas and Santiago papers. He was very
pleased to see the faces of the dear Bahá’ís in Chile, and wishes you to
convey his loving greetings to them all.

He was very encouraged by all the good news conveyed in your letters,
and would have answered you before but for the pressure of other work.
He has been particularly pleased to hear that the united efforts of
yourself, Mr. Lamb and Mr. Canales are now going to bear fruit in the
form of an Assembly in Punta Arenas this year.

Regarding the various points you raised in your letters:

The Master said that Socrates — the Prince of the Grecian
philosophers — received inspiration and instruction from the Hebrew
Prophets; so we cannot say that Greece was devoid of contact with any
Prophetic Source.

Spiritual Assemblies are at present limited to nine members, but they
can be enlarged in the future when circumstances require it.

He does not intervene in purely local administrative matters, and it is
for the Assembly to decide, if the absence of a member is prolonged,
when they should hold an election to replace that person. The principle
is that the nine members of the Spiritual Assembly should be reasonably
available for meetings. If their absence from town is prolonged, someone
else must fill the vacancy. This would naturally apply to you or anyone
else.

He feels that you should devote your energies primarily to teaching the
Cause there in Chile. If you have time and inclination to do some
outside writing, there is no objection.

Also, as regards your desire to teach at some future date in
Afghanistan: At present no one can foresee what conditions will be like
in that and many other disturbed countries. He feels your present field
of service is South America, where the doors are open, the work
promising, and the people receptive.

He is very happy over the way the Cause is spreading, and consolidating
its foundation, in Chile, and he assures you his loving prayers will
continue to surround you and support you in your devoted labours.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved, for Whose Cause you are labouring so devotedly, so
energetically, and with such love, zeal, and perseverance, reward you a
thousandfold for your activities and accomplishments, guide your steps
at all times and under all conditions, and assist you to overcome every
obstacle, and fulfil every wish and desire you cherish for the
furtherance of His Faith and the consolidation of its institutions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 April 1945 \[Juliet Thompson, Mexico\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March 12th, with its enclosures, reached the beloved
Guardian and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is also answering Mr. Marangella’s letter and that of the Mexican
friends separately and direct to their addresses.

He was happy to hear you and dear Mrs. Smyth are both well and have been
able to accomplish so much in Mexico. In connection with your returning
to teach there he feels there is no objection to your doing so, and has
written the Mexican believers that he approves of your going back there.

He has also urged them to study deeply the Administration, as this is a
very important field of Bahá’í life, and people of every nation, who
become believers, will sooner or later have to perfect themselves in it,
in order to carry on the work of the Cause and build the new world order
of Bahá’u’lláh.

He is happy to see the friends are benefiting by a study of “God Passes
By”; after the long months of really very exhausting labour he put into
this book, it encourages him to know that it fulfils its purpose.

You and dear Mrs. Smyth will often be remembered in his prayers and he
sends you both his love.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I was deeply touched by your letter and greatly value the sentiments
you have expressed. The services which you and dear Mrs. Smyth have been
rendering in Mexico are indeed highly meritorious and valuable, and the
Beloved, I feel certain, is well pleased with the perseverance, the
zeal, the devotion, the care and understanding with which you have
striven to enlighten, unite and edify the Mexican believers. Persevere
in your noble task, and rest assured that I will continue to pray for
you both from the depths of my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 April 1945 \[Chile\]

Delighted. Heartfelt congratulations Santiago Magellanes friends
lovingly remembered Shrines.[^5]

23 April 1945 \[Bahá’ís of Bolivia\]

DELIGHTED. HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES.[^6]

23 April 1945 \[Chile\]

OVERJOYED. HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES
APPRECIATE 5 PHOTOGRAPHS ASSEMBLY.[^7]

23 April 1945 \[Chile\]

VERY HAPPY LOVING APPRECIATION REMEMBRANCE SHRINES.[^8]

26 April 1945 \[Dominican Republic\]

DELIGHTED CONGRATULATIONS LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS.[^9]

26 April 1945 \[Ecuador\]

OVERJOYED MAGNIFICENT ACHIEVEMENT LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SHRINES.[^10]

14 May 1945 \[Josephine Kruka, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 9th reached the beloved Guardian with the
interesting photos you enclosed and the clippings, and he has instructed
me to answer it on his behalf.

He was truly delighted to see the way the Faith has progressed in Cuba
and the present scope of Bahá’í activities. It shows that there are many
pure-hearted, sincere and receptive souls in that country and augurs
well for the future.

He was also very pleased to see that both Dr. Blomquist and his wife are
active in serving the Faith. There is no doubt that one of the strongest
influences the Faith exerts over the minds of those who contact it for
the first time is seen in the living example of unity which it presents
through its workers being drawn from so many races, nations and creeds.
In a disunited, love-starved world, this example is a healing balm to
the tired, dispirited minds of men.

He assures you his ardent prayers will continually be offered on your
behalf and for the success of your noble work.

Please convey his loving greetings to all the dear friends there, and
assure them they are often in his thoughts and prayers.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your constant and meritorious efforts, guide
every step you take, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you
to extend continually the scope of your highly appreciated activities,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 June 1945 \[Virginia Orbison, Ecuador\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated April 21st has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was delighted with the formation of an Assembly in Guayaquil and
interested to learn that all its members are active, enthusiastic, young
people. This augurs well for its future development and for the spread
of the Faith in Ecuador.

The youth are indeed those to whom the Cause should perforce offer its
greatest appeal, as it holds alone the promise for their future
security. Without that which Bahá’u’lláh has given to humanity the
outlook for the future of the world would appear truly hopeless, for the
evil forces in men’s nature seem to have gained the ascendancy, and only
a spiritual force, direct from God, can enable the good side of human
nature to again assume command of men’s lives.

Please give his loving greetings to all the dear friends there, and
assure them he will watch their growth and activities with keen interest
and pray for their success and spiritual unfoldment.

He will also pray for your health and that your many, much appreciated,
services to the beloved Faith may be richly blessed.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless continually your highly meritorious efforts,
guide every step you take in the path of service, and enable you to
proclaim to all who are far and near the saving and healing truths of
this glorious Revelation, and contribute a notable share to the
multiplication and consolidation of its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 June 1945 \[Flora E. Hottes, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of April 29th, as well as
the enclosed message from the members of the first Bolivian Bahá’í
Assembly, and he was most happy to hear from you all. I am answering you
on his behalf, and also enclosing a reply for the Spiritual Assembly.

He was greatly rejoiced at the formation of the Assembly there, and
feels it has begun with the auspicious start of a group of devoted and
enkindled souls. You must be very happy indeed to see at last the
tangible fruits of your patient efforts over a period of years!

He was also delighted to learn there are now two capable, intelligent
and dedicated believers residing in Sucre, and he hopes that you, and
the La Paz Assembly, will give them every support and encouragement
within your power. Please convey to them his greetings and assure them
he will pray that they may soon attract a group of active truth-seekers
around them and thus form the nucleus of the second Bolivian Spiritual
Assembly.

He certainly urges you to continue your all-important work in Bolivia,
and he will pray that God in His mercy makes Bolivia a radiant centre of
His Faith.

With loving Bahá’í greetings to you and the dear Cuéllars,

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep sense of gratitude for your magnificent
services to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, and of my constant, my loving and
fervent prayers for the success of your high endeavours, and the
realization of every hope you cherish for the advancement of His
glorious Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 June 1945 \[LSA Buenos Aires, Argentina\]

Overjoyed magnificent achievement formation summer school. Deeply
appreciative Tormos historic service offering fervent prayers extension
consolidation activities foremost centre Latin America. Deepest love.

5 July 1945 \[Louise Caswell, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your most welcome letter of May 24th — enclosing that of the Spiritual
Assembly — reached the beloved Guardian, and he was very happy to receive
it. He has instructed me to answer both on his behalf, and I am
forwarding herewith, in your care, his reply to the Assembly. I might
add it was most thoughtful of you to enclose a translation, as it takes
time to have it sent out here to a translator.

The formation of this very important Assembly was a source of deep joy
for him, and he feels that your persevering efforts, and those of
Mrs. Oliver and all the other dear friends, have at last borne fruit in
a worthy form; he hopes that the believers there will now go forward,
with the greatest love and unity, to the accomplishment of the many
tasks that lie ahead, such as increasing the community’s members,
holding regular public meetings, teaching the Indians, etc.

He very greatly appreciates your own constant labours in this small but
significant republic, and assures you that he will continue to pray for
you, that your efforts may be richly blessed and that you may be guided
and strengthened in your devoted labours for the Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am so glad to receive the splendid news conveyed by your letter, and
I wish to assure you of my heartfelt and abiding appreciation of your
constant, your devoted, and meritorious activities and services to our
beloved Faith. Persevere in your noble task, and rest assured that I
will continually supplicate for you at the holy Shrines.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 July 1945 \[Chile\]

Spiritual Assembly of the

> Bahá’ís of Punta Arenas, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter, dated May 31st, was received a few days ago by the
beloved Guardian, and brought great joy to his heart. He has instructed
me to answer it on his behalf.

As you know it has been his ardent desire and hope for some years now to
have a permanent centre of our glorious Faith established in that
distant southernmost city of the world, and it has given him deep
satisfaction to see that the faithful and unsparing efforts of such
souls as Mrs. Steward, Mr. Lamb, and Mr. Canales have now been rewarded
through the establishment of your Assembly.

He hopes you will exert every effort to increase the number of believers
in your city, so that the status of your Assembly will be permanently
assured, and there will be no danger of its reverting to a group,
through lack of sufficient members of the Faith being resident there.

He was very pleased to see that the Bahá’ís of Chile are now going to
concentrate their efforts on establishing an Assembly in Valparaiso; he
fully approves of this plan, and hopes that by next April it will be
completed and the third Chilean Assembly elected.

From what he has heard, and judging by the great progress made by the
Cause in your land, he hopes that it will soon become one of the leading
members of the Bahá’í Cause in South America. You may be sure he will
pray for its future in the Holy Shrines here in Haifa.

He will also pray for each and every one of you, that God may guide you
to serve His Faith and bless your devoted labours.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dearly-beloved friends:*

*I was thrilled by the message you were moved to send me. I marvel at
your accomplishments, and am proud of your services. I will pray
specially for you all from the depths of my heart. Persevere in your
noble task and rest assured that the Beloved will sustain your efforts,
guide your steps, and enable you to crown your labours with magnificent
success.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 August 1945 \[Eve Nicklin, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of November 9th, 1944, reached Haifa some time ago, but due
to pressure of work the Guardian has not been able this winter and
spring to attend to his mail promptly, otherwise he would have written
you before. He feels sure you will understand the delay was not caused
by any other reason!

He was very sorry to hear of the death of John Stearns; he was a fine
believer, and it is a pity he should have passed away so young — but his
reward is assured and his name will be forever preserved in the
roll-call of the early Bahá’í pioneers to South America.

The news of the progress of the Cause in Peru greatly pleased him, and
he hopes that on the modest but sound foundation that has been laid
there a flourishing and exemplary community will arise and reward you
and the other dear friends for your devoted and unsparing labours.

You may be sure he will certainly pray for you and for the success of
the fine work you are doing there.

> Please convey his loving greetings to all the dear Bahá’ís there.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your efforts in the service of our beloved Faith,
and enable you to promote at all times the vital interests of its
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 October 1945 \[Josephine Kruka, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of July 19th, with photos and clippings enclosed,
has been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it on
his behalf.

He was delighted with the good news you conveyed of your recent teaching
trip, and also to receive Dr. Blomquist’s letter reporting on the
remarkable reception his presentation of the Cause met with in Santa
Clara. The Guardian is answering his and his wife’s letter under
separate cover. He feels these two gifted souls are a great asset to the
Faith and that they will accomplish much in its service.

Cuba seems to be a country in which the Cause is destined to make rapid
progress. Your heart must rejoice to see all that has been done in the
last few years, and the way your untiring, self-sacrificing and loyal
labours have been crowned with so much success!

He was also very happy to hear that more of the teachings are being
translated into Finnish, and that you are trying to re-establish your
contact with that country. There is so much work to be done in Europe
when conditions improve and travel again becomes possible.

You are always remembered, and your services very deeply appreciated by
the beloved Guardian. You may be sure he will pray that the Cause may
rapidly spread to other centres in Cuba and that country become alight
with this glorious Revelation.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you again of my deep-felt appreciation of the efforts
you are so devotedly exerting for the promotion of our beloved Faith. I
will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart, that the
Beloved may bless your efforts and aid you to win still greater
victories in His service.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 October 1945 \[LSA Guayaquil, Ecuador\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter dated July 16th has been received by the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to see that you now have a united and devoted group of
believers there, and have formed the first Spiritual Assembly of your
Country; your efforts must now be to build up a Community of Bahá’ís in
Guayaquil sufficiently large and strong to enable you gradually to form
other Spiritual Assemblies in Ecuador.

He was also very pleased to see that the Cause is receiving newspaper
publicity there, and that you are winning the sympathetic interest of
editors and people of importance. The Faith needs friends as well as
adherents, and you should always endeavour to attract the hearts of
enlightened leaders to its teachings.

The work done by dear John Stearns and other pioneers will never be
forgotten; it is the Guardian’s ardent hope that from the ranks of the
Latin American Bahá’ís pioneers will increasingly be found who will
carry on the work in Central and South America among their own people.

You may be sure his loving prayers will be offered for the success of
your teaching work and for your guidance and protection in administering
the affairs of the Cause there.

With warm Bahá’í love,

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He will be very interested to see the photographs when they arrive.

*Dear and valued friends:*

*I was extremely happy to receive your letter. The sentiments expressed
therein I greatly value, and I wish to assure you in person of my
constant and fervent prayers on your behalf, that your newly established
centre may flourish, and that your meritorious efforts may be crowned
with signal and enduring success.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 October 1945 \[Rosy Vodanovič, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 11th reached our beloved Guardian, and he was very
happy to hear from you. He has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf, and welcome you into the service of our beloved Faith.

As you already know, it has been a great source of happiness to him that
a Spiritual Assembly has been established in Magallanes, and he hopes
that all the friends there will exert their utmost to carry on the
wonderful work begun by the devoted pioneers who have laboured there.

Most important of all is that love and unity should prevail in the
Bahá’í Community, as this is what people are most longing for in the
present dark state of the world. Words without the living example will
never be sufficient to breathe hope into the hearts of a disillusioned
and often cynical generation.

The Guardian feels sure you will be able, with your devotion and
enthusiasm, to do many things to promote the Faith in your country.
Chile has responded warmly to this sacred Message, and this cannot but
attract the blessings and protection of God.

He assures you he will pray that your heart’s desires may be realized in
the service of our beloved Faith.

Please convey his loving greetings to all the dear friends in
Magallanes.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I was thrilled by your most welcome message. I wish to assure you in
person of my ardent prayers for you, that the Beloved may bless
continually your efforts, guide your steps at all times and under all
conditions, and enable you to consolidate the foundations that have been
laid in that far-away centre. Be assured and happy, and persevere in
your glorious task.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 October 1945 \[Bahá’ís of Havana, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter, together with the report of the interesting lecture
given by Dr. Blomquist, reached the beloved Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf. Your letter, I neglected to
say, was dated August 9th.

He is particularly happy to see that through the devoted labours of your
Assembly the Message is now reaching the interior of the island. Cuba
seems to be one of the leading Latin American countries enrolled under
the banner of Bahá’u’lláh, and the Guardian cherishes the brightest
hopes for its future.

The publicity you are now receiving should bring the Cause before the
public in a very favourable light, and he hopes you will win for it many
new adherents, as well as many sympathizers and friends. It is very
important to gain admirers of the Faith in prominent positions; the very
fact that they do not claim to be Bahá’ís, but praise our teachings, is
an excellent aid to the spread of the Cause.

It will make you all happy to know that the Guardian is in excellent
health, and has been able to rest more this summer after his very
exhausting labours of the last few years in preparation for the
Centenary.

He assures you he will particularly remember the Havana Assembly and
community in his prayers, and supplicate that on the excellent
foundation you have laid may now arise many new Assemblies in that
promising and friendly land.

> With Bahá’í love and greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was extremely pleased to receive such splendid news from your centre,
and note the remarkable progress achieved in that promising country. I
feel truly proud of your achievements, and will supplicate from the
depths of my heart the Almighty’s richest and continued blessings on
your meritorious labours. Persevere and be happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 October 1945 \[Cora H. Oliver, Panama\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your welcome letter of August 17th has reached the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

He was happy to hear you had been able to attend the summer school at
Temerity Ranch, and that it had been so instructive and successful.

 

He sees no objection to your moving to the Canal Zone as long as you are
quite sure it will in no way weaken the Assembly; he suggests you take
up your residence where there are already some believers (if this is
possible) and concentrate on forming another Assembly.

 

The work in Panama is at last on a sound footing, and your patient
labours are bearing fruit. He hopes that the Cause will gradually spread
among the Indian and other coloured members of the population, and thus
demonstrate its truly universal and unbiased character.

 

Regarding your question about the status of the Canal Zone and the
peculiarities attendant upon its unique position; he feels this matter
should be taken up by the American National Spiritual Assembly and then,
if they wish, they can refer to him for any advice they may feel they
need.

 

You may be sure that he will pray that you may be guided and sustained
in your devoted services to our beloved Faith — services which he greatly
appreciates.

 

> Please convey to all the dear friends there his loving greetings.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. The Guardian shares your hope that in the future you will be able
to make the pilgrimage to Haifa. In connection with your question about
the Bahá’í ringstone given you by Ruhi: he sees no objection to your
wearing it.

 

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

 

*I deeply appreciate all that you have achieved for our beloved Faith,
and I cherish great hopes for your services in the future. You have
truly set a noble example to your fellow-workers, and I pray that the
Beloved may bless every effort you exert, and guide every step you take
in the path of service. Persevere, be assured and happy.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

17 November 1945

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The Guardian was very happy to receive your letter of August 19th,
together with that of the Bahá’í youth, and to see how well the Cause is
progressing there.

Regarding your reference to …, who seems to be a very enlightened and
sincere man. The Guardian feels that you might point out to him that if
he, as a Bahá’í, should insist on the right to support a certain
political party whose platform he considers highly meritorious, he
cannot very well deny the same degree of freedom to other believers;
which would mean that within the ranks of a Faith whose primary
objective is to unite all men as one great family under God, there would
be Bahá’ís opposed to each other, vying with each other, and because of
the very nature of politics, in violent disagreement with each other.
Where then would be the example of harmony and unity for which the world
is seeking?

The Guardian will pray that … may feel moved to sacrifice his political
associations in order to fully support the divine system which is the
remedy for all the ills of all the people in the world. He will also
pray that your friend … will feel moved to courageously espouse the
Faith which she so admires.

Your long and patient service in … has yielded a fruitful harvest, and
the Guardian is very pleased over the report you have given him. He
feels you are the best one to decide whether you should at present go
home for a rest or not, as you can better judge if your temporary
absence will seriously affect the work there or not. Meantime you may be
sure he will pray for your continued success, guidance, and health.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He thinks it would be an excellent idea to translate some of the
teachings into the native Indian language.

*With the assurance of my lively and abiding appreciation of your truly
remarkable efforts and services, and of my continued and fervent prayers
for the extension of your valued activities, and the full realization of
your dearest hopes in the service of our beloved Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 November 1945 \[Peru\]

The Bahá’í Youth of Lima, Peru

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of August 19th was received by the beloved Guardian, and he
was very happy to hear from you. He has instructed me to answer you on
his behalf.

The Universal Friendship Club which you have formed should be an
excellent means of contacting progressive and thinking young people, and
of gradually introducing them to the Bahá’í Teachings.

There are so many movements in the world at present akin to various
Bahá’í principles; indeed we can almost say that the principles of
Bahá’u’lláh have been adopted by thinking people all over this planet.
But what they do not realize, and what the Bahá’ís must therefore teach
them, is that these principles, however perfect, will never be able to
create a new society unless and until they are animated by the spirit
which alone changes the hearts and characters of men, and that spirit is
recognition of their Divine Origin in a Teacher sent from God; in other
words, Bahá’u’lláh. When they recognize this, their hearts will change
and a change of heart is what people need, not merely a change of
intellectual outlook.

He will pray that each one of you may be blessed in serving our beloved
Faith, and that your club may be a means of attracting to it many
sincere and devoted young people, like yourselves.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings and good wishes,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved of our hearts bless richly your highly meritorious
efforts, guide and sustain you always, enable you to widen continually
the scope of your activities, and set a noble example to your
fellow-workers throughout Latin America,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 November 1945 \[Antranik Kevorkian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter dated July 7th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very happy to hear that you have arisen to do pioneer service for
our beloved Cause, and he hopes that your labours in Paraguay will be
richly blessed.

He was also happy to hear that you and Miss Paghaharian are going to be
married and serve the Faith you both love so dearly, together. A
marriage between two believers who love the Cause more than themselves
or purely selfish interests has a firm foundation from the beginning.
You may be sure he will pray for you both, your happiness, and the
success of your united service to the Cause of God.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your marriage, protect and guide you always,
bless your efforts in your new undertaking in the service of our
precious Cause, and enable you both to render memorable services to its
institutions, *

*Your true brother, *

*Shoghi*

13 December 1945 \[Emeric and Rosemary Sala, Guatemala\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

It was a great pleasure for the beloved Guardian to receive your joint
letter from Guatemala City, of November 3rd, and to see the number of
Latin American centres you are visiting.

He feels sure your trip will lend a marked impetus to the work in these
newly established Assemblies, and encourage the believers to strive with
greater enthusiasm and confidence in their local activities; the role of
travelling teachers is very important, and fulfils a need which neither
pioneer nor resident teacher can supplant; particularly in gaining
publicity, and in being able to get a bird’s eye view of local problems
and possibilities, can they render the Faith an essential type of
service.

He was delighted to hear that dear Mr. Sala’s book has been published,
and hopes it will not only be a success but will open the way for other
Bahá’í works to be published by non-Bahá’ís. He is looking forward to
receiving the copies you mention, and will place them in the Haifa and
Bahjí libraries.

The Latin American friends have many fine traits of heart and mind, and
he believes they will, in the future, when they become firmly grounded
in the World Order and their numbers multiply, contribute much to the
general progress of the Faith the world over.

He will be very interested to receive a report of your experiences and
impressions, and he greatly appreciates this valuable service you are
unitedly, with so much faith, love, and devotion, rendering the Cause of
God.

His loving prayers accompany you, and are offered for the success of
your work in every way.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep and heartfelt appreciation of your strenuous
activities and meritorious services for the promotion of our beloved
Faith, as well as of my ardent and continued prayers for your success in
the new enterprises you have undertaken,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 March 1946 \[Julie Regal, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of February 10th has been received by the beloved Guardian
and he has instructed me to answer it, and to thank you for the amusing
criticism of so much Bahá’í publicity!

He was extremely happy to hear that the conference was a great success,
both in uniting the friends and in the publicity it gave to the Faith.
The believers in Panama are indeed very fortunate in working for the
Cause in a land so tolerant and receptive, and situated in such a useful
position from a purely geographic standpoint.

He will certainly say special prayers for Panama in the Holy Shrines,
that the friends there may arise as one soul in many bodies to
consolidate the work already achieved and follow up the favourable
impression created by this recent conference.

He will also pray for your own spiritual development, happiness and
welfare. You should greatly rejoice that so early in life God has
enabled you to serve His Cause in such an important field at so crucial
a time!

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless richly your meritorious endeavours, guide your
steps, cheer your heart, and graciously assist you to promote
effectively the vital interests of His Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 March 1946 \[Evelyn Larson, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated January 18th has been received, and the beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

In spite of the tremendous pressure of his work he is always pleased to
hear from the pioneers because he considers their labours of such vital
importance to the Cause.

He was very glad to know you are holding the Feasts, as these form a
rallying-point for the friends and help to unite them and deepen them in
the Faith.

You may be sure he will pray for your dear mother and father and sister,
that they be strengthened and freed for more active service in the
Faith.

He will also pray for the success of your own devoted labours in Costa
Rica, and that Bahá’u’lláh may guide you to receptive souls.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless richly your work, guide every step you take,
sustain you in your meritorious labours, and enable you to extend the
range of your valued activities and accomplishments,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 March 1946 \[Shirley Warde, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of February 19th has just been received, and the beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf and to tell you
how delighted he is over this trip you are taking, so rich in
opportunities to render the Cause a new and valuable form of service in
Latin America.

He assures you he will ardently pray for the success of your Bahá’í and
your professional work, in the Holy Shrines.

Please convey his loving greetings to the friends wherever you go, and
urge them to increasingly shoulder their own teaching and administrative
tasks in order to hasten the world-wide fulfilment of the Divine Plan.

> With loving greetings and best wishes for your work,

R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless and sustain you in your deeply appreciated and
meritorious labours, guide you at all times, cheer your heart, and
graciously assist you to extend the range of your historic services to
His glorious Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 March 1946 \[Gertrude Eisenberg, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of November 8th, 1945, was received, and the
Guardian was most happy over the good news you conveyed to him.

Your services in Asuncion have been most deeply appreciated by him, and
it rejoices him to hear there are now 26 believers there. He hopes you
keep in constant contact with them, as your long association with their
work has no doubt endeared them to you and you to them!

He hopes that your labours in Sao Paulo will be equally fruitful and
blessed, and that you will, with the help of visiting teachers, soon
have an Assembly there.

You may be sure he will support your efforts with his loving prayers.

Please convey his loving greetings to Leonora Armstrong.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved sustain you at all times and under all conditions,
abundantly reward you for your manifold and meritorious services, remove
all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win memorable victories
for His Cause and its newly established institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1946 \[Flora E. Hottes, Uruguay\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated September 18th, 1945 and February 11th, 1946 have
been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them
on his behalf, and to assure you he was delighted with all the good news
you gave him.

Before going any further let me assure you he will pray for those souls
you particularly mentioned: … and, especially, the gifted and devoted
man who is doing so much for the Cause — …. He hopes this man will take
the final step and give himself to Bahá’u’lláh, realizing such a bondage
is the greatest freedom of all.

He is very pleased that you are not only remaining in Uruguay, but have
found some work which makes you happy and brings you good Bahá’í
contacts. He hears that the work in Bolivia is going well, so you need
have no fears, and can dedicate yourself to consolidating the Faith in
Montevideo with a tranquil heart.

He will most certainly pray that the Spiritual Assembly there may be
firmly established, and that your labours may be richly blessed. …

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. As the Guardian always answers all his cables he cannot understand
why you received no answer; presumably it got lost somehow.

*May the Almighty guide and bless you at all times, aid you to proclaim
the truths underlying His glorious Faith, and contribute, in an
exemplary manner, to the multiplication and consolidation of its nascent
institutions in those far-away and promising countries,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1946 \[Aretmus Lamb, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter dated November 18th, 1945 reached the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear — at the tail-end of your letter — that after
all, things were going very well there! So much loving devotion has been
expended on that important little centre way down in the Southern
Hemisphere, by you and the other pioneers, that you certainly deserve to
see your labours fruitful and blessed!

When you consider how long it took the Faith to spread in the United
States, the work in South and Central America has gone forward with
unbelievable speed. But of course we must never be satisfied, but rather
feel that more can and should be done — as you do.

He was happy to hear you now have a centre for meetings, and that the
Faith continues to be broadcast far and near.

You may be sure he will offer special prayers for the success of your
much-appreciated work there, and for the community to rapidly increase
in numbers.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless you and sustain you at all times, reward you for
your splendid services, guide your steps, and aid you to overcome all
obstacles, and win mighty and memorable victories for His Faith and its
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1946 \[Cora H. Oliver, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 25th, 1945 was received, and the beloved Guardian
thanks you for the map you enclosed and the additional information
regarding Panama; he would have replied sooner, only he was too busy to
do so.

He hopes that the friends there will make rapid strides forward in unity
and in reaching members of different races with the Message.

You may be sure he will remember you in his prayers and pray for the
success of your Bahá’í work.

> With warm greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless continually your meritorious efforts, guide you
and sustain you, reward you for your splendid endeavours, and aid you to
surmount all obstacles and win memorable victories in the field of
teaching,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1946 \[Virginia Orbison, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of November 12th, 1945, was received, and the
beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted by the good news you gave him of the progress you found
in many of the centres you visited in different countries. He is looking
forward to the time when the Latin American believers will play an
important part in the affairs of the Faith, as he feels they have much
to contribute to its progress.

He hopes that your labours in Brazil will be productive of great
results, and that with the aid of pioneers and teachers an important
Assembly will be soon thriving in Rio de Janeiro.

He will certainly pray for .... He will also pray that this new work you
are doing in Rio may be blessed by the Beloved and yield rich fruits.

Please give his loving greetings to dear Mrs. Armstrong.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved, Whom you serve with such zeal, ability, and devotion,
reward you a thousandfold for your magnificent accomplishment, sustain
you in your high endeavours, and enable you to add fresh lustre to the
glorious work you have achieved in the service of His mighty Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 March 1946 \[Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated December 4th, 1945 and January 13th, 1946, have been
received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on
his behalf.

He also is cabling you that he approves of dear Yvonne de Cuéllar’s
going to teach in Sucre. As I am replying also to a letter from her to
the Guardian I am addressing you each separately, although your last
letter was a joint one.

He is very pleased that active teaching work is now going to be
conducted in Sucre, and hopes this will soon lead to the formation of a
sound and thriving Assembly there.

He urges you not to be discouraged if you find the friends more passive
than North American believers; their temperament is different, and they
are young in the Faith; patience, love and your strong example will no
doubt draw them into taking on more of their share of the work.

He was delighted to hear you are obtaining radio broadcasts and forging
ahead with the translation work.

You may be sure he deeply values your teaching work, and will pray for
it to yield a rich harvest.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve with such splendid devotion,
bless continually your labours, reward you a thousandfold for your
constancy and services, guide every step you take, remove every obstacle
from your path, and enable you to extend steadily the range of your
meritorious activities, *

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 March 1946 \[Josephine Kruka, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated September 19th, October 29th and November 10th, 1945,
have been received, with the clippings you forwarded in them.

The Guardian was delighted with the good news you conveyed of the
progress of the work in Havana. Particularly was he pleased to hear that
you are going to establish an Assembly in Santa Clara. He hopes this
important step will be crowned with success and greatly enhance the
teaching work throughout Cuba.

He was also delighted to see that the first Bahá’í marriage received
publicity in the papers, and he hopes the bride and groom will be very
happy and serve the Cause together.

> You are very fortunate in receiving such favourable and free
> publicity!

Assuring you of his loving prayers for your health, and for the success
of the many activities of the Cuban Bahá’ís.

> Yours, with Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your meritorious and strenuous efforts, guide you
and sustain you at all times, enable you to extend continually the range
of your splendid accomplishments, and fulfil your heart’s desire in His
service,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 March 1946

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your most welcome letter of March 5th was received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

…

 

He has felt from the very beginning that these gifted, sensitive Latins,
who are capable of being both spiritual and intellectual, have a great
contribution to make to the future progress of the Cause everywhere, and
he is very anxious that they should become strong enough to manage their
own affairs.

 

The many valuable services you are rendering the Faith … are very deeply
appreciated by him, and he rejoices to see you and your dear wife
toiling so faithfully in the service of our beloved Cause. ….

 

He will pray that your labours for the Faith may be ever-increasingly
blessed and fruitful.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

 

*The services which you and your dear wife have rendered in Latin
America are highly meritorious, and evoke my heartfelt admiration. I
pray you may have similar opportunities in the near future, and that the
Beloved may, wherever you labour, bless abundantly your notable
activities and accomplishments. Persevere in your work, rest assured,
and be happy.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi* 

29 March 1946 \[Chile\]

Mr. Carlos Bulling Petersen

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated 19th July, 1945, took some
time to reach him and to be translated, but he was very pleased to hear
from you and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

You have been led to our beloved Faith, as many of the believers were in
the days of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, through a process of seeking for the Divine
Truth in many progressive movements, and you are richly blessed by God
in that your eyes remained open, always ready to recognize the Message
of God when you found it. So many souls, alas, start out on the path of
seeking, but stop half way, and when they do reach the ocean of this
Revelation, can no longer recognize it!

He is very happy to see you and your dear wife are so active in helping
to establish an Assembly there in Valparaiso and in teaching the Cause.

He assures you he will pray that Bahá’u’lláh may aid you to render His
Faith many valuable services in Latin America.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving and abiding appreciation of your loyalty and
devotion to our beloved Faith, of my fervent prayers for your happiness
and success, as well as for the realization of your dearest hopes in the
service of its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 March 1946 \[Rosa Caro, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated December 29th, 1945, was
received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very glad to see how devotedly attached to our blessed Faith you
are, and he hopes that you will be able to render it many services in
the days to come.

Mrs. Steward has done a tremendous work in Chile in teaching the Cause
and helping the newer Bahá’ís to establish their Assemblies — but all must
serve. There is such a tragic need amongst the people of the world for
spiritual enlightenment and guidance, and every single Bahá’í must serve
and help to spread the Message.

He hopes to receive the good news of the establishment of the first
Spiritual Assembly of Valparaiso this April!

You may be sure he will pray for you and for the success of your Bahá’í
services.

> With warm greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and enable you to
further, at all times and under all conditions, the vital interests of
His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 April 1946 \[LSA Valparaiso, Chile\]

DEEPEST LOVING APPRECIATION REJOICE HISTORIC TRIUMPH.[^11]

24 April 1946 \[Chile\]

ASSURE ASSEMBLY LOVING APPRECIATION FERVENT PRAYERS.[^12]

24 April 1946 \[Local Assembly Rio de Janeiro, Brazil\]

DELIGHTED ASSURE YOU LOVING PRAYERS APPRECIATION.[^13]

5 May 1946 \[Nicaragua\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated April 17th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear the good news you conveyed to him of the
formation of an Assembly (which was to take place on April 21st), and of
the progress the Cause is making in Managua.

Dr. Malcolm King has rendered Nicaragua a great service through his
teaching work there, and the Guardian hopes that you, and the other dear
believers there, will now carry on the work with constant activity and
fervour.

The Bahá’ís in Central and South America now have a great and specific
task of their own to carry out during the coming years — the formation of
two National Spiritual Assemblies; this will require constant effort on
their part, deeper study of the teachings and Administrative Order, and
a great love and unity among the believers.

The Guardian assures you all of his loving prayers for the success of
your Bahá’í work, and for the rapid spread of the Cause in Nicaragua.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings and love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless you and guide you, and enable you and your dear
co-workers to promote effectively the best interests of His Faith, and
consolidate your splendid achievements,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 May 1946 \[Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated Jamál 2nd was received by our beloved Guardian and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to assure you he
deeply appreciated the sentiments of love, and devotion to our Faith,
which you expressed in it.

It is a great source of joy to him to see the signs of the remarkable
way the Cause has spread in Latin America, and how so many devoted and
enkindled souls have embraced it and are eager to serve it with all
their hearts!

He hopes that the believers in Argentina will strive during the coming
year to establish new Spiritual Assemblies; now that the South American
friends are soon to have their own National Spiritual Assembly they must
rapidly increase the number of their Local Assemblies. He hopes you will
be able to aid in this important work.

You may be sure he will pray for you and for the success of your Bahá’í
services in the Holy Shrines.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you, enable you to promote the
vital interests of His Faith, and to contribute to the steady
consolidation of its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 June 1946 \[Louise Caswell, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters of January 26th and June 9th have been received, as well as
the photograph of the Assembly of Panama, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He is delighted that the Cause is now firmly established there, the
believers united and active, and the work in general progressing so
well.

He was also very happy to hear of the prospect of the possible formation
of another Assembly in Concepción, and hopes you, and the other friends
who are able, will assist and stimulate the work there.

The sooner the work in Latin America is on a permanent foundation the
better, as this will release veteran pioneers like yourself for work
abroad. He would be delighted to see you go to Spain, and take part in
such an historic undertaking as that of establishing the Cause in this
entirely virgin field!

…

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He wishes also to thank you for the report on your trip to Bogota.
As you know, the situation there now has greatly improved.

*May the Beloved bless continually your historic and meritorious
activities and services, guide every step you take, sustain you in every
effort you exert, and aid you to extend steadily the scope of your
splendid accomplishments,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

25 June 1946 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated May 10th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear that three new souls have joined the Faith in
Sucre; although an Assembly has not yet been formed there, the addition
of these sincere people to the group is a great step forward, and he
hopes that you and, if possible, your dear husband will again visit that
town and assist the believers in teaching and in increasing their
numbers to at least 9.

He ardently hopes that your dear daughter will join you in serving the
Faith, and he assures you of his prayers on her behalf and for the
success of your and Mr. de Cuéllar’s devoted services, which he deeply
appreciates. He was very happy to hear of the translations Mr. de
Cuéllar has been making!

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Please convey the Guardian’s loving greetings to Miss Sholtis.

*Assuring you of my loving and continued prayers for your success, your
happiness, and the complete realization of every hope you cherish for
the advancement of our beloved Faith, and the consolidation of its
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 July 1946 \[Local Assembly of Santiago, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter, written on behalf of the Spiritual Assembly, and dated
June 22nd, has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me
to answer it on his behalf.

He was most pleased to see that the Cause has progressed in Chile to the
point of a dear friend desiring to endow it with a plot of land for use
as a future Bahá’í Temple. Please assure … that the Guardian very deeply
appreciates the generous-hearted devotion which has impelled her to make
this offer of land.

He feels, however, that the best thing to do would be to keep the
property in her own name until the South American National Spiritual
Assembly is formed, and then to seek their advice as to whether it is
suitable for the purpose she desires. This body will be of great help in
consolidating, coordinating and expanding the work of the Faith in Latin
America’s southern countries, and it is only proper such matters should
be referred to it — also the Cause in Chile by that time will be in a
better position to receive and administer endowments.

He rejoices over the great progress the Faith is making there, and
assures you all of his loving prayers for your success.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. The Guardian wishes you to also inform … that he advises her to
safeguard the land until it is legally transferred to the name of a
Bahá’í Assembly. He wishes her to please send him two photographs of the
land showing its situation. He will publish this in “The Bahá’í World”.

*May the Beloved of our hearts guide, bless, and sustain you in your
magnificent labours in the Divine Vineyard, aid you to extend
continually the range of your splendid activities, enable you to acquire
a deeper understanding of the fundamentals of His Faith, and contribute,
in ever increasing measure, to the formation and consolidation of its
local and national institutions in Latin America.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 July 1946 \[Chile\]

The Spiritual Assembly of the

> Bahá’ís of Punta Arenas, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated June 24th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear of your many activities, particularly of
your regular radio broadcasts, as these are a means of bringing the
Faith to the attention of many people who are not ready to go to
meetings.

As regards the questions you have asked him: When he refers to the
“Southern extremity of the Western Hemisphere” he means Punta Arenas; by
“subsidiary agencies” he means that as the work of your Assembly
expands, through the growth of the community there, you should appoint
committees (teaching, children’s class, youth, etc.) to assist you in
carrying on the work of the Cause; by “local administrative
headquarters” is meant a centre for the city of Punta Arenas — which he
understands you now have.

You were quite right in not accepting any financial aid from a
non-Bahá’í; our attitude is that this wonderful Cause of Bahá’u’lláh is
our free gift to the people of the world. It is our privilege, as
believers, to support it and be the means of giving it to others; we
only accept money from non-Bahá’ís for charity which we then give to the
needy of any denomination or race who require it.

The best and most successful way of attracting others to the Faith is
through the example of love, unity, and noble living which your
community must set. His ardent prayers are offered on your behalf and
for your success.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was delighted to receive your most welcome letter. You are, I assure
you, often in my thoughts and prayers, and I deeply value the spirit
that animates you in the service of our beloved Faith. I feel proud of
your achievements, and very close to you all, despite the vast distance
that separates us. Persevere in your noble work, and rest assured that I
will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 July 1946 \[Marie Kevorkian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letter of June 7th
and to felicit you on the happy occasion of the birth of your little
daughter Ana-May. He hopes she will grow up to follow in the footsteps
of her namesake, and he will pray for her health and development.

He is glad to hear that you are making every effort to establish a group
in La Plata, as he feels this is very important. He was also pleased to
hear that the summer school was successful, and a winter school is also
being held. He assures you he will certainly pray for you and your dear
husband and brother, and for the realization of all your hopes in the
service of the Faith.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved reward you abundantly for your notable services, bless,
guide and sustain you always, and enable you to establish a flourishing
centre in La Plata, and thus enrich the record of your splendid
accomplishments. *

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi *

24 July 1946 \[Cuba\]

Miss Silver

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters of March 17th and May 28th have been received, with the
clippings and photograph you enclosed, and our beloved Guardian was
delighted to see that the visits of dear Dorothy Baker and the Salas had
been of such help to the work there, and had received such good
publicity.

He heartily approves of your going to some other town in Cuba to spread
the Message and he hopes you will soon be able to arrange to do this.
New Spiritual Assemblies are urgently needed everywhere in Latin
America, in order to provide a sounder and broader foundation for the
future National Spiritual Assemblies.

You may be sure he will pray for the success of your work in this new
field.

Please convey his loving greetings to all the Bahá’ís there, especially
dear Miss Kruka.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved abundantly reward you for your continued and strenuous
labours, fulfil every desire you cherish for the promotion of His Faith,
and enable you to achieve still greater victories in its service,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 July 1946 \[Edward and Mary Bode, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter of April 19th, with all the good news it conveyed,
was received, and the beloved Guardian would have answered you sooner
had he not been very busy.

Now that your great longing to serve the Faith in pioneer fields has at
last materialized, you can see how your efforts are being blessed and
you are rendering real assistance to the Cause in South America.

The formation of the Rio de Janeiro Assembly delighted him, and he feels
confident that the turning-point in the teaching work in that country
has at last been reached. The new souls, of capacity, and full of
enthusiasm, who have entered the Faith there will, no doubt, greatly
enrich it, and facilitate its spread among their countrymen.

You may be sure his loving prayers are offered for your success in all
your activities; he deeply values your services.

Please convey his greetings to all the friends there, and urge them to
redouble their efforts in view of the fact that South America will soon
be having a National Spiritual Assembly of its own.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved guide, sustain, and bless you, at all times and under
all conditions, aid you to overcome all obstacles in your path, and
achieve memorable victories in the service of His Faith in Latin
America,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 July 1946 \[Virginia Orbison, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 23rd was received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

The formation of the Assembly greatly rejoiced his heart, and you and
the other dear pioneers must feel very grateful that at the last moment
your labours were so richly blessed with success.

He assures you he will certainly pray for all the members of this new
and important Assembly, as well as for ... , who, he hopes, will feel
moved to actively join in the work of the Faith.

He has hopes that you will be able to visit Spain, and help in the work
of the opening of that great country to the Faith — her Latin American
children have welcomed the Cause, it is surely time she too received it!

You may be sure he deeply values your untiring services, and will pray
for your success in every field of endeavour.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my profound admiration and abiding gratitude for the
splendid services you have rendered, and of my constant, my loving, and
fervent prayers for the extension of your activities, and the full
realization of every hope you cherish for the promotion of our beloved
Faith and the consolidation of its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 July 1946 \[Gwenne D. Sholtis, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March 29th has been received, and our beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very pleased to hear the Faith is steadily, if slowly, progressing
there, and that you have enrolled some new believers. He sincerely hopes
that the recent happenings in La Paz have not endangered the lives of
any of the friends, or affected the work of the Cause there? The people
of the world are in such a disturbed state that we can see daily the
evidences of their great need to hear of and accept the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh.

He was pleased to hear recently from Madame de Cuéllar of the results of
her successful teaching trip to Sucre; he appreciates very much the
services of this devoted couple, and wishes you to please convey to her
and Col. de Cuéllar his loving greetings.

Your devoted and steadfast labours to promote the Faith are very deeply
valued by the Guardian, and he assures you of his frequent prayers for
the progress of the Cause there and for your dear self.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

He wants particularly to assure you of his prayers on behalf of your
dear brother’s soul and for your parents as well.

*May the Almighty bless continually your meritorious labours, aid you to
extend the range of your activities, reinforce the foundation you have
so devotedly laid, and win memorable victories for the institutions of
His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 July 1946 \[Artemus Lamb, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letters dated February 4th, April 5th and June 11th have been
received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on
his behalf.

...

He is delighted with the news you convey of the work in Punta Arenas and
in Chile in general. He feels you should, by all means, travel and
assist both the Assemblies of Valparaiso and Santiago, as well as do all
you can to aid in the establishment of a fourth Chilean Spiritual
Assembly. Chile is certainly becoming outstanding!

He is very pleased that you were able to visit the Convention, and, on
returning to continue your important work in Chile, also visit so many
other Bahá’í centres en route. The Latin American believers must work
really hard now for their two future National Spiritual Assemblies. This
is a great step forward, and they have a part, now, for the first time,
in the Divine Plan.

He assures you of his continued loving prayers on your behalf.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am so pleased and grateful for your splendid achievements. I admire
your devotion, zeal, and perseverance. The work you are achieving in
Chile, and particularly in Punta Arenas, is truly historic and
exemplary. Persevere in your great task, be happy, and rest assured that
I will continue to pray for your success from the depths of my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

31 July 1946

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated April 28th (written in conjunction with others) and
June 19th have been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me
to answer them on his behalf.

… His mail is, alas! very heavy and tiring, but he considers it
essential to keep in contact with those who are doing pioneer work, like
your dear self.

It is certainly time, all over the world, for Bahá’ís to sever any
affiliations they have with churches, political groups, etc., before
being enrolled as believers; we must explain to the newcomers that it
would be sheer hypocrisy on their part to remain in churches when they
now believe Christ has returned with new laws in a new Dispensation!

… The prospective formation of two National Assemblies for Latin America
will necessitate a great deal of work during the next four years. The
Latin believers must assume more and more responsibility for the proper
conduct of their affairs, and also increase the number of their
Spiritual Assemblies. You can help them greatly in this through uniting
them and assisting them to become maturer Bahá’ís.

….

> His loving prayers, you may be sure, surround you.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Your letter of July 14th has just been received … . As regards your
diary: you can, if you so desire, will it to the Guardian, but it would
be better if it were to go to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
United States of America. Another Bahá’í in the States has entrusted
sealed documents to that body, not to be opened till after his death — or
some period of time set by him — and these and any other things are quite
safe in the hands of this well-organized National Assembly. It would be
a pity to destroy the diary. The Guardian urges you to not be
discouraged!

*May the Beloved bless continually your magnificent activities, sustain
you, at all times, in your high endeavours, remove all obstacles from
your path, and enable you to add fresh laurels to the crown you have
already won in the service of His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

31 July 1946 \[Chile\]

Mrs. Millicent B. de Schulder

Mr. Esteban Canales

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of April 28th, written from Valparaiso with Mrs. Steward,
has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer
it on his behalf.

He is delighted at the progress the Cause has made in Valparaiso, and he
deeply appreciates the devoted labours which you have rendered it in
that city.

He hopes you will do all you can to consolidate the work there, and
ensure the permanence of this new and important Assembly.

> You may be sure he will pray for you both in the Holy Shrines.
>
> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my heartfelt and abiding appreciation of your splendid
and historic services, and of my constant and loving prayers for the
extension of your valued activities in the service of our glorious Faith
and its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 September 1946 \[Louise Caswell, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 10th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted with the news you conveyed to him of your work in
Colón, and that you feel there will be an Assembly there by next April.
This development of new Spiritual Assemblies throughout Latin America,
in preparation for the two National Spiritual Assemblies to come, is of
the utmost importance, and he will certainly pray for the rapid
development of the group in Colón.

Please give his loving greetings to the believers there, and assure them
he will watch with keen interest their efforts to establish a thriving
Assembly and community there.

You may be sure he will continue to pray for your own devoted and
unsparing services to our beloved Faith — services which he deeply values.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my deep and abiding gratitude for the
many services you are rendering our beloved Faith. You will certainly be
greatly rewarded by our beloved Master for your constancy, devotion, and
achievements. Persevere in your noble task, and rest assured that the
Beloved is well pleased with you.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 September 1946 \[Shirley Warde, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of August 12th, full of so much interesting and
encouraging news, was received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed
me to answer it on his behalf.

Your reports of the work there, especially of the remarkable progress
being made in Brazil, pleased him greatly, and he was so happy to see
that your background and training are now of such great assistance to
you in serving the Cause in this very important Latin American field.

He hopes the conference in Buenos Aires will be a great success; it is
really a very important step forward in the work in South America, and
should serve to coordinate activities and unite the friends in their
future labours which must lead to a National Spiritual Assembly in the
near future.

He has just answered a letter from your dear mother; you must be proud
of her work, and her example — and she in turn has every reason to be
proud of you!

You may be sure he will pray for the Cause to make marked progress in
Buenos Aires, and that your labours may be richly blessed in all your
undertakings. He deeply appreciates all you are doing. Please convey his
loving greetings to all the friends there, and especially to Mr. Tormo
and Mr. Barras, your devoted co-workers and such faithful servants of
the Cause.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved sustain you in your high endeavours, reward you
abundantly for your splendid services, guide every step you take in the
path of service, and enable you to extend the range of your exemplary
accomplishments,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 September 1946 \[Brazil\]

To the believers of Rio de Janeiro

who wrote the Guardian on June 19th, 1946

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving message expressing so much devotion to our beloved Faith and
so much firm determination to serve its interests at all times and in
every way within your power, greatly cheered the heart of our beloved
Guardian and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

The progress the Cause is making in Brazil is truly great, and he hopes
that, through your united labours you will soon be able to establish in
Rio a large and thriving Bahá’í Community.

Brazil as one of the most important nations of Latin America deserves to
assume an important role in the promotion of the Faith in that vast
continent, and he is most anxious that Assemblies should be established
in its chief cities as soon as possible, and the Divine Message reach
the seeking and needy people of that land.

You may be sure that he watches the progress of your work with keen
interest, and cherishes high hopes for your future services. He urges
you all to work together with greatest love and unity as this example
will most speedily attract the hearts to you and your teachings.

His loving prayers are offered for each and every one of you, and for
your devoted services.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was thrilled by your message, and deeply appreciate the sentiments
you have expressed. I marvel at the progress of your activities, and
will pray from the depths of my heart for their steady extension and
consolidation.*

*Persevere in your noble efforts and rest assured that the Beloved will
bless your labours and crown your efforts with signal success.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 November 1946

South American congress in Buenos Aires care BahÁ’Í Wilmette

Overjoyed acclaim historic congress. Profoundly appreciate pledge marvel
magnificent progress achieved. Praying fervently extension range superb
services rendered by dearly beloved community Latin American believers
Faith BahÁ’u’llÁh. Deeply regret unavoidable cancellation projected
visit our much loved indefatigable coworker Mrs. Collins your congress.
Request assembled delegates LAy wreath my behalf grave immortal may
Maxwell whose glorious sacrifice will ever remain associated rise
establishment faith latin america.

4 January 1947 \[Argentina\]

DELIGHTED SUCCESS LATIN AMERICAN REGIONAL CONGRESS PRAYING RICHEST
BLESSINGS.

SHOGHI

8 February 1947 \[Shirley Warde, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of December 21st, 1946, with the very encouraging
report of the recent conference which you enclosed, was received, and
our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you on his behalf.

The spirit, and the determination to action, which was manifest at the
conference greatly pleased the Guardian, and encouraged him. The most
important thing of all is that the Latin believers should arise to
shoulder their own work, produce their own teachers and administrators,
and become capable of managing all their own affairs prior to the
election of their National Assemblies. They seem now to be well on the
right way to accomplishing these aims, and he is truly delighted with
the progress made!

He was, likewise, very encouraged to hear about the bright prospects for
the summer school there, which he hopes will develop, in the near
future, into a flourishing Bahá’í institution.

There seems to be some error in the cable he sent the conference, and so
I am enclosing a complete copy in case some of the sentences were
omitted through the double transmission to Argentina from Haifa via
Wilmette.

He deeply appreciates all you and your fellow-Bahá’ís in Argentina are
doing for the spread of the Cause there and throughout South America, as
well as for the publishing work.

> You may be sure his loving prayers are with you.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am thrilled by your letter and report. I marvel at the success that
has crowned your high endeavours. I am deeply grateful to you and to our
dearly beloved co-workers who attended and organized this historic
Congress. I will continue to pray for your success from the depths of my
heart. Persevere in your noble task, and rest assured that the Beloved
is well pleased with you, and will bless your meritorious labours.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 February 1947 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated November 23rd, 1946, was received, and our beloved
Guardian was rejoiced to hear your good news: that your dear daughter
has embraced the Cause, that you were delegated to visit the Buenos
Aires Conference from La Paz, and that you and your good husband were
able to teach in Sucre! No wonder you are so happy!

He hopes you and your husband will continue to assist the teaching work
in Sucre, and that you will, by all means, do some teaching work in
Cochabamba — if that seems the next most receptive spot to the
establishment of yet another Bahá’í group.

You may be sure he will pray for dear ... as well as for ... , that they
may both deepen in the Faith and render it many services.

He also will pray for the success of the many undertakings of your dear
husband and yourself, that Bahá’u’lláh may richly bless you.

> With warm love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your meritorious efforts, guide every step you
take in the path of service, and fulfil every hope you cherish for the
promotion of His Faith and the consolidation of its God-given
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 February 1947 \[Ecuador\]

Asamblea Espiritual de los Bahá’ís de Guayaquil

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian received your letter of September 15th, with the
cheque you enclosed as your loving contribution towards the Báb’s Shrine
completion work, and I am enclosing a receipt from him and answering you
on his behalf.

He is very happy to see the devotion to the Cause which your letter
evinces, and the love which unites you all in its service. Wherever
there is love and unity among the believers the work will prosper and
new souls be attracted.

Since your letter was received the wonderful conference of South
American believers was held at Buenos Aires — which your delegate
attended. The Guardian hopes that the great inspiration which the
friends attending this conference so strongly felt, will be carried into
far-reaching action throughout that continent and in your own country.

The news that you hope to have a second Assembly, in Quito, established
this coming April, greatly rejoiced him, and he will pray that your
labours there, and in other parts of Ecuador, will yield a rich harvest
before 1951, when the South American National Spiritual Assembly is
established. The Latin American friends have a great future to look
forward to in the service of God and humanity!

You may be sure he will pray for your Assembly and all its members, that
Bahá’u’lláh may strengthen, guide, and bless you in your service to His
Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was deeply touched by your letter and value your contribution as an
evidence of your strong attachment to our beloved Faith. I will pray for
the success of your efforts for the promotion of the Cause of God and
the consolidation of its institutions. Rest assured, and persevere in
your noble task.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1947 \[Albert Lovaton M., Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter dated October 14th was received by our beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

News of the wonderful success of the Buenos Aires Conference has already
reached him, and he feels that it truly marks a turning point in the
development of the work in South America. It also has demonstrated that
the believers of Latin America are going to be able to not only elect
their two National Assemblies, when the time comes, but will be capable
of managing the affairs of the Cause in these republics of the New World
with dignity, efficiency and success!

The news you gave him of the teaching work being carried on by your
Assembly in Callao gave him great satisfaction. This work is of the
utmost importance, and he assures you he will pray that it may be very
successful, and that a flourishing Bahá’í community may soon exist
there.

Your devotion to, and love for, our glorious Cause touches him deeply,
and he will pray that your services may be richly blessed by
Bahá’u’lláh.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep and abiding appreciation of your meritorious
and historic services to our beloved Faith, and of my fervent prayers
for your success and the speedy realization of every hope you cherish
for its extension and promotion,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1947 \[Ecuador\]

The Bahá’ís of Quito, Ecuador

Mr. Hans Däry, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated September 13th, 1946, has been received, together with
the cheque you forwarded as your contribution towards completing the
Báb’s Shrine on Mount Carmel, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me
to answer you on his behalf, and to send you the enclosed receipt.

He was very touched by your gift for the Báb’s Tomb, and to see that the
believers so far away are yet so near in heart and spirit to the Holy
Land.

He hopes that your Bahá’í work in Quito will progress sufficiently
rapidly for you to have a Spiritual Assembly there by this April. He
attaches great importance to the work there, and assures you all his
loving prayers are offered for the success of your devoted labours.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was deeply touched by your letter and by this evidence of your
exemplary devotion to the interests of our beloved Faith. You are often
in my thoughts and prayers, and I will continue to supplicate
Bahá’u’lláh to aid, sustain, and guide you in your meritorious and
historic labours for the promotion of His Faith.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1947 \[Charles Petersen Bulling, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of October 7th, 1946, has been received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear that you and your dear wife are so active in
serving the Faith, and that your children are receiving the inestimable
benefit of growing up in this New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.

He was also delighted to hear that new souls are embracing the Faith,
and that you are able to carry the Message to other towns. The Cause in
Chile is growing very rapidly, and the more it spreads the more the
attention of the public will be fixed upon it. This imposes a heavy
responsibility on the believers, as they must show forth such a spirit
of love and unity among themselves as will attract the hearts of others
and encourage them to enter the Faith in large numbers. We must always
remember that the Teachings are perfect, and that the only reason more
of our fellow men have not as yet embraced them is because we Bahá’ís,
the world over, are ourselves not yet as selfless and radiant mirrors of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Truth as we should and could be! We must constantly strive
to better exemplify His Teachings.

You may be sure he will pray for the success of your devoted services,
as well as for your dear family and all the believers in Valparaiso.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers for your success in the
service of our beloved Faith, and of my deep-felt and abiding
appreciation of your meritorious efforts for its spread and
consolidation in your promising country,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1947 \[Peru\]

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Beckett

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your joint letter, dated October 25th, 1946, was received, and our
beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you both on his behalf.

He was very happy over this first Bahá’í marriage in Peru, and feels it
will not only be a blessing for you, but for the Cause there. He has
since heard that the whole ceremony attracted the interest of many
people there and was very beautiful and dignified.

You have the greatest bond that can unite two people — love for the Cause
of God and for humanity, and this will enrich and cement your human
union; as you cling to it, you will find your marriage blessed and
fortified.

The English believers are now becoming so numerous that one finds them
serving the Faith in many parts of the world, and this pleases Shoghi
Effendi very much, as they have much to contribute to our Bahá’í
international community.

He hopes you both — representatives of the Old and the New World — will
perform many valuable services for the Cause in South America.

> He assures you he will pray for your success and for your happiness.
>
> With cordial good wishes to you both,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. As I do not have your address I am sending this in the care of
Mr. Albert Lovaton M., to whom I am also writing today.

*Assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers to Bahá’u’lláh, that He
may bless your union, fulfil your hearts’ desire in the service of His
Faith, and enable you to promote, at all times, the vital interests of
its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 February 1947 \[Artemus Lamb, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter dated August 24th, 1946, was received and the Guardian
answered directly that from the Bahá’ís of Mulchen. As he has been very
occupied with various problems he felt you would understand his not
replying to you immediately.

The Buenos Aires Conference, so outstandingly successful, greatly
pleased him. It certainly appears that the South American Bahá’ís are
maturing rapidly, and fitting themselves to elect and maintain their own
National Spiritual Assembly by the appointed time! All this is directly
due to the dedicated, self-sacrificing services of the little band of
North American pioneers, of which you are a most valuable part.

The Cause in Chile seems to hold great promise, and he hopes that ere
long it will have Assemblies scattered all over the country. Though the
work at times may seem slow to you, it is really progressing wonderfully
well, and the Chilean Bahá’ís have a right to feel proud and optimistic.

> You know his prayers are with you in all you do!
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and prized co-worker:*

*How proud and thankful I feel for your superb services, rendered so far
afield, with such distinction, and under such difficult conditions. The
Beloved is surely well pleased with your work, and will continue to
bless your arduous, historic and unforgettable labours. Rest assured
that I will continue to pray for your happiness and success from the
depths of my heart.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 February 1947 \[Jean Silver, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated August 10th and September 9th, 1946, as well as the
clippings you enclosed, were received, and our beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is so happy to see you have established yourself in Cienfuegos, and
not only rented a Centre there but are actively teaching a study class!
This is a great step forward in the development of the Faith in Cuba,
and he hopes ere long you will be able to establish the second Spiritual
Assembly of that country there.

…

He hopes the way will again open for pilgrims to visit Haifa — but at
present the country is so disturbed that he cannot allow any visitors to
come. He hopes in future the way will open for you to come.

You may be sure his most loving prayers are offered for the success of
your very meritorious services and for the confirmation of many new
souls.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, continually and increasingly, your meritorious
and exemplary efforts, reward you abundantly for your self-sacrificing
labours, and graciously assist you to extend the range of, and
consolidate, your notable accomplishments,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 February 1947 \[Marie Kevorkian, Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated December 9th has been received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf, and also
to thank you for the newspaper clipping you enclosed.

He is very happy to see you and your dear husband are now actively
engaged in teaching the Cause in La Plata, and that you already have a
study group; This is the best way for you to begin, with a few sincerely
interested souls whom you can teach in your own home, and, through love
and kindness, win as your friends and friends of the Faith.

The Buenos Aires and Panama conferences have truly marked a turning
point in the work in Latin America; the number of delegates that
attended them, their enthusiasm and determination to carry on the work
in their different countries, were outstanding, and he feels confident
that the two new National Spiritual Assemblies, when elected, will rest
on a permanent and sound foundation.

Please assure your brother that the Guardian will pray that he may be
able to teach the people of Ezeiza the Cause and establish a group
there. He will also pray for your health and that you and your husband
may soon have an Assembly in La Plata....

> With loving greetings to you,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your constant and meritorious efforts, remove
whatever impedes the progress of your activities, and aid you to realize
every hope you cherish in the service of His Faith and its institutions,
*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 March 1947 \[Brazil\]

The Bahá’ís of São Paulo

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving message sent to the Guardian on the occasion of the
celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Guardianship touched
him very much, and he has instructed me to write and thank you for it on
his behalf.

He is very happy to see there are now so many active believers in Sao
Paulo, and he assures you all he will ardently pray that a Spiritual
Assembly may soon be established there and thus strengthen the Faith in
Brazil.

> With loving greetings to you all,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh guide, sustain and bless you, at all
times and under all conditions, and enable you to promote effectively
the vital interests of His glorious Faith and its God-given
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 April 1947

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated March 17th, 1947, was received, and our beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear you have had such wonderful experiences in
Latin America, and that you find the Cause there so alive in the hearts
of its new followers ... .

Your offer to go to Europe as a pioneer is one he accepts with great
pleasure; your experience as a teacher, your trip to South America, your
devotion and loyalty, all fit you to render this type of service, and he
urges you to contact at once the European Teaching Committee and make
your plans with them.

You may be sure his most loving prayers will accompany you in all you do
for our glorious Faith.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Shoghi Effendi wishes me to add this note in connection with your
marriage: he does not feel that any believer, under any circumstances
whatsoever, can ever use the Cause or service to it as a reason for
abandoning their marriage; divorce, as we know, is very strongly
condemned by Bahá’u’lláh, and only grounds of extreme gravity justify
it. He feels, if ... your husband consents to the plan, you could do
some teaching in Europe; but to leave him permanently, unless you both
have tried again and feel your marriage — such a sacred bond — to be
impossible, is not right.

*May the Beloved bless your meritorious efforts, reward you for your
services to His Faith, and enable you to promote, at all times, the
vital interests of its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 April 1947 \[LSA La Paz, Bolivia\]

Delighted. Praying Assemblies La Paz Sucre richest blessings abiding
gratitude deepest love.[^14]

27 April 1947 \[LSA Sao Paulo, Brazil\]

OVERJOYED GRATEFUL. ASSURE YOU LOVING ARDENT PRAYERS.[^15]

8 June 1947 \[Josephine Kruka, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters … were received, dated May 5th (as well as that dated
January 7th), and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you
on his behalf. …

The news you conveyed about the satisfactory results of Mr. Illescas’
visit pleased him greatly; he agrees with your view that the Cause will
make greater progress there when more native Latin Americans are active.

He was also very happy to hear you are now arranging to go to Sweden. He
certainly approves of your spending some time in visiting Finland. The
work there, though not included in the present Seven Year Plan, is
nevertheless very important, and any help you can give the Cause there
would be of great value.

He assures you of his most loving prayers for the success of your work
in Sweden and Finland….

> With warmest love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He was delighted to hear about Mrs. Lismore’s devoted activities;
also, he assures you, he will specially pray for the rapid advancement
of the beloved Cause in both Cuba and Finland.

*May the Almighty bless your constant and meritorious efforts, and aid
you to extend the range of your activities, and win great victories in
the pioneer sphere of Bahá’í activity,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 June 1947 \[Artemus Lamb, Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 25th, and containing
a copy of your letter to the Inter-America Committee was received, and
read by him with interest, and he has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

It pleases him greatly to see how the Latin believers are really
becoming eager to take things in their own hands. They soon will have to
do so! So the sooner they become adept in managing the work in their own
countries, sending out their own teachers, etc., the better for all
concerned.

He feels that the work in Central and South America is really reaching a
point where, in the not too distant future, various numerically strong
Latin American communities will be able to form independent National
Spiritual Assemblies. The prospect is getting brighter all the time, and
your heart must rejoice over the work in Chile — he feels Chile may prove
a winner and carry off the palm by establishing the first National
Assembly in Latin America (as opposed to the forthcoming Regional
Assemblies).

> He assures you of his constant loving prayers on your behalf.
>
> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty reward you a thousandfold for your truly remarkable
and highly meritorious accomplishments, aid you to extend continually
the range of your beneficent activities and historic services, and win
still more glorious victories in the Latin American field, and
particularly in far-off Magallanes,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 June 1947 \[Cuba\]

The Bahá’ís of Havana, Cuba

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 7th, was received,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Faith in Cuba has not only been well established and sunk deep into
the hearts of its new converts there, but it has witnessed the
establishment of an active Spiritual Assembly in Havana and the growth
of the local community in that famous city. He is now very anxious to
see a similar development take place in Cienfuegos — a city with such a
beautiful and symbolic name! He urges the Havana believers to not only
devote themselves to the teaching work in their own city, but also to
assist, through teaching visits and lectures, the work in Cienfuegos. As
your community is the mother community you must feel a keen
responsibility for all work undertaken in Cuba.

He assures you all of his loving prayers for your unity and for the
success of your devoted labours.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your high and greatly valued endeavours, aid you
to extend continually the range of your meritorious activities,
consolidate your achievements, and win still greater victories for His
Faith and its nascent institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 June 1947 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Our beloved Guardian regrets very much the long delay in answering your
letter, dated October 31st, 1946, but it is almost impossible to find
anyone here to translate Spanish letters; he therefore hopes that you
will overlook the delay.

The way the Faith has spread in Chile has brought great joy to his
heart, and he cherishes high hopes for the future rôle this country will
play in Bahá’í affairs, as the Bahá’ís there grow in number and in
understanding of both the spiritual truths, and the administration, of
the Cause of God.

He assures you he will pray for your health, your happiness, and that
you may render Bahá’u’lláh many services in the days to come.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh sustain, guide and bless you at all times
and under all conditions, aid you to promote the vital interests of this
glorious Faith, and contribute effectively to the consolidation of its
institutions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 June 1947 \[Gwenne D. Sholtis, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters, dated September 26th, 1946, and February 10th, 1947, as
well as one enclosing photographs of the dear Cuéllar family, were
received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on
his behalf. He is delighted over the progress made in Sucre, thanks to
your and the Cuéllars’ devoted and unsparing efforts. Although the work
may seem to you slow at times, you must look upon it as a whole and see
that where there was nothing at all some years ago, now there are
Assemblies and groups! This is a great triumph, and your heart should
always rejoice, in spite of the many very tangible problems that arise
in your path!

You may be sure he will pray for you in the Holy Shrines and for the
success of your devoted labours.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He wishes you to know that it is only pressure of work here that
keeps him from answering your letters more promptly; he is always happy
to receive your news.

P.S. Since writing the above your letter dated May 21st has arrived,
together with your photograph of the Sucre Bahá’ís, and he was delighted
to learn there is now such an active and devoted community. He is also
very glad to hear of your teaching work in Cochabamba, and urges you to
persevere in it. He will pray for the Cuéllars and appreciates greatly
their steadfast labours.

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my keen and abiding appreciation of
your manifold, meritorious and constant services to our beloved Faith,
and of my ardent and continued prayers for your success. The Beloved is
well pleased with your activities, and will surely bless abundantly your
labours. Persevere in your high endeavours, and rest assured that the
Beloved will guide your steps and reward you for your splendid
accomplishments.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 June 1947 \[Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 2nd, with photos and enclosures, was received and
our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear of the way the Faith is progressing in
Cienfuegos and of the visit of dear Mr. Remey.

He also wishes to assure you he will pray for … , that God may illumine
his heart with the light of His Cause. He will also pray that … may
learn to conform in every respect to our teachings. We must not be
exacting on young believers, especially at this stage of the teaching
work. However, the National Assembly is the one to refer these problems
to.

Your devoted and untiring efforts are very much appreciated, and he
assures you he will pray for the realization of your fondest hopes in
the Holy Shrines.

> With warmest Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He would have answered you sooner had he not been so busy!

*Assuring you of my abiding and loving appreciation of your truly
splendid efforts, services and accomplishments, and of my continued and
ardent prayers for your success in the service of this glorious Faith
and its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 June 1947 \[Valeria Nichols, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 15th has been received and our beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is delighted with the work you and your dear brother are doing in
Chile, and with the remarkable way the Cause is progressing there — so
remarkably in fact that it leads one to believe it might be the first
Latin American republic to have an independent National Spiritual
Assembly!

> He assures you of his ardent prayers for the success of your work.
>
> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers for the success of your
magnificent efforts, and the extension of your exemplary and highly
meritorious labours in the service of the Faith in Latin America,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 July 1947

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated October 18th, November 11th, December 6th and 14th,
1946, and March 11th, May 22nd and June 19th, 1947, have been received,
as well as the clippings and various enclosures you forwarded with them,
and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.
The work of the Cause is expanding so rapidly that he finds it
increasingly difficult to keep up with his correspondence, and that is
the only reason he has not answered you before.

Regarding the various points you raised in your letters:

…

He feels that before any Assembly embarked on a project such as a school
they should receive the advice and approval of the National Spiritual
Assembly as such matters fall within its jurisdiction.

The situation you outlined to him in one of your letters as existing at
that time in ... he felt was regrettable, but due largely to the
immaturity of the believers. Of course no Bahá’í should drink, and if he
persists in it and refuses to make an effort to overcome it, the
Assembly must take action. But in these newly established centres one
must be very patient lest the whole group go to pieces because of too
strong or sudden action.

The book that you outlined to him he does not feel should be in any way
associated with the Bahá’ís or our teachings, because we are advocating
world federation, not local federations; if these come about as part of
the process of world federation, well and good, but they are not our
thesis.

...

He assures you of his loving prayers in the Holy Shrines for the success
of your valuable labours and your happiness and welfare in every way.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. The news of the way the work is not only progressing in Costa Rica
but centring about it greatly

pleases him, and he deeply appreciates what you have accomplished there.

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Though overwhelmed by my work which has, alas, interfered with the
prompt acknowledgement of the letters addressed to me by my
dearly-beloved friends, you have, I assure you, been often in my
thoughts and prayers, and the memory of your indefatigable and
outstanding services has been a great encouragement to me in my labours.
I greatly admire the spirit that so powerfully sustains and animates
you, and I will continue to supplicate on your behalf the Almighty’s
richest blessings. Persevere in your glorious task, and rest assured
that the Beloved is well pleased with your standard of service.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 July 1947 \[Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian dated December 6th, 1946, was
received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

Had he not been so very busy he would have replied to you sooner, but
the work of the Cause is now so extensive that he is finding it almost
impossible to reply to all his mail.

He feels the services you are rendering the Faith are much needed, and
you should never permit yourself to get discouraged. We cannot always
perceive at once the results of our labours.

> You may be sure he will pray for your success in the Holy Shrines.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success in the service of
our beloved Faith and of its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

2 August 1947 \[Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated July 13th, has been received
and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He does not think you have any cause to feel unhappy or discouraged.
Your services to the Faith in Panama have been devoted and most helpful.
Just because you have not succeeded in learning Spanish is no reason to
feel you have failed — many people have not the gift of learning
languages, no matter how much they may desire to do so.

He urges you to go on with your work in the City of Panama and assist in
consolidating and building up the Community there. For the present time
this is where you can do the most good and the classes you conduct, the
friends you attract to the Faith, and the support you give the believers
there are all needed and valuable services.

…

> With warm love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Regarding your question about the book of Juk: the Guardian regrets
he can give you no information about it as none seems available at
present.

*Assuring you of my loving appreciation of your notable services to His
Faith, and of my constant prayers for your welfare, and the realization
of every hope you cherish for the promotion of our glorious Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

25 September 1947 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your welcome letter of July 29th was received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

…

The news you conveyed of the progress of the Cause in Bolivia and of the
radio talks that are being given regularly pleased him greatly. He was
also delighted to hear that the Cause will soon be officially registered
there.

The seeds that are being sown, we cannot but believe, will come to
fruition when the people gradually realize that all the things they are
pinning their hopes on — the churches, political parties and social
reform — are inadequate, and unable to solve the world’s problems. It is
sad to see their indifference to the remedy God has provided; but
eventually their eyes will be opened to the truth.

He hopes you will be able to carry out your contemplated teaching trip,
and assures you his loving prayers surround you and your dear family.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you in person of my deep and abiding appreciation of
the efforts you are so devotedly exerting for the promotion of our
beloved Faith. I will pray from all my heart … for the success of your
deeply valued endeavours for the consolidation of the institutions of
the Cause you love so dearly.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 October 1947

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated September 22nd, has reached
him, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

You have rendered the Faith so many valuable services, and there is so
much work to be done in these distressing times that it would be a great
pity if you were forced into inactivity. However, if you can both
reserve the right to work for the Cause wherever you are, and at the
same time lead a happy domestic life, he certainly thinks this would be
a happy arrangement for you.

He sees no objection to your marrying Mr. … as long as you feel
confident he will not oppose your devotion to the Faith and your service
to it. This is something for you two to decide, as it concerns your
future life and happiness, but the Guardian will ardently pray that you
may be guided in this matter, and that Bahá’u’lláh will draw Mr. …
closer to His Cause.

> With warmest Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless and richly reward you for your past magnificent
services, aid you and guide you, at all times and under all conditions,
and enable you to promote, continually and effectively, the vital
interests of our glorious Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 November 1947 \[Cuba\]

Mr. Hamaty

Miss Silver

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters to our beloved Guardian, dated October 3rd, have been
received, and he is replying to you both at the same time as he is so
very busy these days.

He is very happy to see Mr. Hamaty is so active in supporting the work
of our glorious Faith there in Cienfuegos, and he hopes that, through
your united labours, and those of your fellow-believers there, you will
soon have a strong Spiritual Assembly established in that city.

To see believers from the East and West working for Bahá’u’lláh together
way off in a city of the New World, both far from their own country, is
truly inspiring, and must be an object lesson to the people of Cuba of
Bahá’í love and solidarity.

He assures you both of his ardent prayers for the success of your
labours and the speedy fulfilment of your hopes.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your efforts for the promotion
of our beloved Faith, and for the realization of every hope you cherish
for its advancement and consolidation,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 November 1947 \[Viva C. Lismore, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated November 20th has been received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very glad to see you are so devoted and so active in serving our
glorious Faith. Once one becomes a Bahá’í it seems indeed impossible
that people can be so blind as not to see in this Cause the divine
solution to the world’s problems and ills; and yet they are, alas, so
blind and sleeping the sleep of the heedless! All we can do is to offer
them the remedy Bahá’u’lláh has brought — but we cannot force them to
accept, much as we long to, their own salvation. Each must accept for
himself.

He will certainly pray for you in the Holy Shrines, and particularly
that you may be able to confirm in the Faith those souls who are ready
to receive it. He feels your services are needed right there in Cuba.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your efforts, aid you to deepen your
understanding of the essentials of His Faith, and enable you to render
its institutions memorable services.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 January 1948 \[Chile\]

Advise congress concentrate effective means ensure extension
consolidation foundations forthcoming National Assembly. Urge redouble
effort teaching activity stimulate pioneer work initiated native
believers. Praying signal success deepest love. SHOGHI[^16]

20 January 1948 \[Mexico\]

Deepest appreciation message Congress. Profound admiration loving ardent
prayers[^17].

25 January 1948 \[Chile\]

Bahá’í Teaching Committee

> for South America

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome letter from Mr. Lamb, your secretary, and dated
January 6th, has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed
me to answer you on his behalf.

He is delighted to see your efforts are meeting with success, and that
your committee is labouring so unitedly and devotedly to carry out the
important work it is responsible for. He was also pleased to see the
programme you sent him which covered so many important subjects and
activities.

He feels that certainly one of the prime duties of your committee is to
train more of the Bahá’ís of Latin America to qualify as teachers of the
Faith and lecturers. The contemplated trip of Mr. Canales should aid in
this work, and also enable him to survey the field and discover ways and
means of training Bahá’ís in local centres to teach efficiently. Another
means of doing this is to hold special conferences and courses at summer
schools to train and encourage teachers.

Punta Arenas, as you know, is very dear to his heart, and he will
ardently pray that the work there may go forward and the Cause be
safeguarded in its development.

No doubt the recent Bahá’í Congress held in Santiago has had a great
effect in stimulating the work throughout South America, and he hopes
that the summer school at Loncoche will carry this stimulus forward, and
inspire enthusiasm and determination in all those who attend it.

His ardent prayers for the success of your important work will be
offered in the Holy Shrines and he thanks you all for your tireless and
dedicated labours.

> With Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was delighted to receive your most welcome message and to learn of
your activities, your plans, your hopes and your determination and zeal
in the service of our glorious Faith. I feel truly proud of your
achievements, and will supplicate the Beloved, from the depths of my
heart, to aid you to extend continually the range of your meritorious
activities, and to win memorable victories for His Cause and its
institutions. Persevere in your historic task, and rest assured that the
Almighty will bless your high endeavours.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 January 1948 \[Mary Bode, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 12th, has been
received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf. He
appreciated the card you enclosed from a Brazilian friend; please thank
her very much for her kind thought.

He feels that the services you and your dear husband are rendering in
Brazil are too important for you to leave that country if you can
possibly find a means of remaining there. If you find that circumstances
have reached a point where you cannot see a way of earning your living
there, you should ask the National Spiritual Assembly’s advice and
guidance before leaving, in the hope that a solution can be found.

He will pray for the two sisters you mention, and for all the souls you
are teaching and who are labouring for the Faith there.

He will also particularly pray for you and Mr. Bode, and that
Bahá’u’lláh may aid you to solve your problems and continue serving
there where you have done so much good and are still needed.

He hopes the work in Niteroy will go ahead well and produce results in
the near future.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I deeply appreciate your high and constant endeavours for the
establishment of the Faith in Brazil, and feel truly proud of your
historic achievements. I urge you and your dear husband to persevere in
your task, however great the sacrifice involved, and to rest assured
that the Beloved is well pleased with you both, that He will watch over
you, and aid you to render still greater services to His Cause.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 January 1948 \[Eve Nicklin, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 16th has been received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He heartily approves of your going to Punta Arenas to strengthen the
work there, as he considers it a very important outpost of the Faith and
one that must be maintained at all costs.

The news of the very successful Congress held in Santiago pleased him
very much. Now that more of the Latin believers are active and beginning
to assume responsibilities, the work will go forward on a more permanent
foundation, as pioneers from a foreign land can never take the place of
native believers who must always constitute the bedrock of any future
development of the Faith in their country.

Please give his loving greetings to Madame de Cuéllar and all the
friends there.

He will pray in the Holy Shrines that your labours in Chile may be
richly blessed, and that the friends in Lima will redouble their efforts
and compensate for your departure.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your outstanding services,
remove all obstacles from your path, assist you to extend continually
the range of your historic accomplishments, and enrich the record of
your magnificent activities in Latin America.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1948 \[Chile\]

To the Bahá’ís who attended the\
Second South American Bahá’í Congress,\
January 23rd, Santiago, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian has been received, and he has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

It brought great joy to his heart to see how devoted the dear believers
of South America are to their newly-found Faith, and how determined to
spread it in their respective countries and upbuild its institutions.

He was also pleased to see with what enthusiasm you are fired in
connection with building your future first South America Bahá’í Temple.
He feels, however, that the most important and, indeed, the primary
objective of your Bahá’í Fund must be, at the present time, the support
of the work of teaching the Faith. In a few short years you will have
your own National Assembly, and it will have full responsibility for
carrying on the work in that part of the world. What is needed is a very
firm and far-flung basis to support this Assembly, and the only thing
that can ensure this is the formation of many new Local Assemblies and
groups. These in turn will augment your financial resources, and bring
closer the day when your Temple can be built.

He was greatly touched by the eagerness of the delegate from Colombia to
have a Temple built there also! All this will come to pass, but first
the foundation must be laid, and the foundation is the teaching work;
the training of new souls to do this work and their circulation amidst
the towns and villages of Latin America is of the utmost importance.

The excellent teaching and publicity work which was carried on in
conjunction with your congress pleased him very much. He feels sure it
will assist the work in Chile greatly.

His loving thoughts are very often with the Latin American believers,
and he cherishes great hopes for their future. He feels they have a very
distinguished career of service before them in the world-wide community
of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers. Already they are winning the interest and
admiration of their fellow-believers in distant lands!

He assures you, one and all, of his loving prayers on your behalf and
for the success of all your plans in the service of this glorious Faith.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*Your most welcome message rejoiced my heart, reinforced my hopes for
your future, and deepened my admiration for your zeal, devotion and
determination in the service of our beloved Faith. I greatly value the
sentiments you have expressed, and I will supplicate, from the depths of
my heart, for your guidance, for the extension of your meritorious and
historic activities, and the realization of every hope you cherish for
the advancement of the Cause of God and the consolidation and
multiplication of its institutions. Persevere, be confident and happy,
for the Beloved is well pleased with the standard of your achievements.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 June 1948

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated April 5th, has been received,
and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He feels that you should lay your feelings, regarding the work you are
doing, before the Inter-America Committee, and let them advise you as to
whether you should stay on in … or not. He will certainly pray that you
may be guided to serve wherever you will do the most good, and he very
much appreciates your devotion and single-mindedness in serving our
glorious Faith.

The progress being made all over Latin America is excellent, and were it
not for the labours of such devoted pioneers as yourself, it could never
have been achieved in so short a time.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and
the success of your efforts for the promotion of our beloved Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 June 1948 \[Brazil\]

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bode

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated May 19th, with a postscript
of May 20th from Mr. Bode, was received, as well as the “Declaration of
Trust” in Portuguese, and the note enclosed from Mr. Bode asking for
prayers for his parents, and he has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

He was very happy indeed to see this historic document in Portuguese,
and congratulates all the signees, as well as the Rio de Janeiro
Community, on this accomplishment. It is hard to gauge the importance of
such events when they take place, but in the future they are seen to be
important milestones in what will be viewed as the “early days” of the
Faith there!

The news that you are going to be able to remain in Brazil, move to
Recife, and serve the Cause there, greatly pleased him, and he assures
you he will pray for the success of your work there and that you may
establish an Assembly in this new Centre. He will also pray for ... .

Your devoted labours are most deeply appreciated, you may be sure.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your constant, your valued
and indeed historic services, bless your manifold activities, remove all
obstacles from your path, and enable you both to proclaim the verities
of our beloved Faith, and contribute, in a notable manner, to the
consolidation of its institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 June 1948 \[Bolivia\]

Madame Yvonne de Cuéllar

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated November 29th, 1947, was
received, and he has instructed me to answer it, and acknowledge receipt
of the programme you enclosed, on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear of the official registration of the Cause
there, and of the new centre you have opened there in more spacious
quarters. Although the work may seem to go ahead slowly, the friends
must never lose heart. The foundation is essential, though it does not
show above the ground; but once the building is erected the original
dimensions become evident. Now you are laying your foundations, and must
be patient until the receptive souls are found, and the progress made,
which will constitute your superstructure!

The service of your dear husband in translating the excerpts from “God
Passes By” was deeply appreciated by the Guardian, and he would suggest
that he translate the entire book — if his health permits him to do
this — so that at a future date the complete text can be made available to
Spanish-speaking people, and have the advantage of the “même coup de
main” throughout. Unfortunately the Guardian himself does not read
Spanish. But he feels sure this must be a valuable addition to the
literature of the Faith in that language.

> He assures you both of his affectionate prayers on your behalf.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He was very sorry to learn of the death of Isaac Manje, and will
pray for his soul’s advancement and happiness.

*May the Almighty sustain and guide you, at all times and under all
conditions, remove all obstacles from your path, and aid you to promote
effectively the vital interests of His Faith and its God-given
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 June 1948 \[Bolivia\]

Miss G. D. Sholtis

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 29th, and enclosing a
clipping from a newspaper, was received, and, although he is very busy
and preoccupied these days, he wishes to drop you this little line of
acknowledgement.

He is very pleased about your teaching work in Cochabamba, and hopes
those you are reaching will be confirmed and arise to really serve the
Cause.

He assures you of his prayers for your success, and for … to become
truly awakened.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, aid you to extend
continually the range of your historic and truly meritorious activities,
remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win still greater
victories in the service of His Faith in the days to come.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 June 1948 \[Flora E. Hottes, United States\]

Miss Flora E. Hottes

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters to our beloved Guardian, dated June 28th and November 28th
1947, were received, and he regrets the long delay in answering you, but
circumstances here, and pressure of work, have necessitated it.

Your visit with your dear parents, your sojourn in the United States,
and the opportunity to rest at home after so many years of service
abroad must be doing you a lot of good, and fitting you for future
labours in the field you have already given your heart to.

He hopes you will follow your desire to resume your teaching work in
Uruguay as soon as your health and circumstances permit. There you will
be doing the Cause a much needed service, and, however much you
accomplish in North America, it will be negligible compared to what you
could do in South America, because of your long years of experience,
your command of the language and your love for the people.

He deeply appreciates the valuable work you have been doing in going
over the translation of “God Passes By”, as well as your constant and
selfless labours for the Faith.

Assure your dear mother of his loving prayers on both your and her
behalf and that you may see your parents well and happy during any
absence of yours from home.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He will also pray for all the dear friends you mention in your
letters.

*May the Almighty guide, sustain and bless you in your constant and
meritorious services to His Faith, remove all obstacles from your path,
abundantly reward you for your incessant labours, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of its nascent institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 June 1948 \[Chile\]

Mr. Artemus Lamb

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letters to our beloved Guardian, dated September 9th (with report
to Miss Cheney enclosed) and 27th, 1947, and March 23rd, 1948, have been
received, and he has instructed me to answer them on his behalf. He has
been very busy, and very preoccupied (as you can well imagine) of late,
and that has held up his correspondence.

The success of the Santiago Congress greatly pleased him. It is
wonderful to see the way the Cause goes ahead, and the believers
succeed, when it appears as if the means for success was just not there!
It clearly demonstrates the assistance of God, as promised to us.

He was also very glad to hear of the wide publicity given the Faith in
Punta Arenas, and that Miss Nicklin, a devoted soul, is going to
establish herself there.

...

You should, he feels, not hold back about visiting centres where you see
your efforts are rewarded by greater efficiency and co-ordination. He
also feels that all three channels should be used to carry forward the
work in Latin America: new pioneers, or visitors, should go there,
whenever possible, the Latin believers must be intensively trained and
encouraged to assume responsibility and the ones who are there, the
North Americans, should by all means step out and set an example and
pull the work forward!

He hopes you and your dear wife will remain, at least for the time
being, in Chile, and go on with the valuable work you have been
doing — work he most deeply appreciates.

His loving prayers are with you both,

> R. Rabbani

P.S. In bringing new souls into the Faith an effort should certainly be
made to see they are sufficiently well-grounded to stay in it!

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh sustain, cheer, and bless you both, at
all times and under all conditions, remove whatever obstacle impedes the
progress of your exemplary and historic labours, aid you to fulfil the
desire of your hearts in His service, and enable you to lend a
tremendous impetus to the multiplication and consolidation of the
God-given institutions of our glorious Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 July 1948

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letters to our beloved Guardian, dated September 20th and
December 13th, 1947, and March 6th, 1948, with enclosures, have been
received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf. From the
enclosed letter, to the National Teaching Committee for Central America,
you will see what he feels about mentioning politics in the press. So I
won’t go into the matter here again.

 

The wonderful progress made in Costa Rica pleased him greatly, and the
correspondence method of teaching is certainly proving itself of great
use. He hopes it will be included as a teaching method everywhere.

 

He feels that, although you could no doubt be of great help to the work
in Italy, your services are much more needed in Latin America.
Experience counts for a great deal, and just at this juncture the work
there can ill spare any of the pioneers who have gained a knowledge of
the conditions, the mentality of the people, and their “vulnerable
points” as exhaustively as you and some of the other early pioneers have
gained.

 

He feels that there is some truth in your thought of the bad influence
of the New History Society. However, it is insignificant and should not
have the origin of all the difficulties within the Bahá’í communities
laid at its door! It is not that strong or that important! Much of the
trouble within various Bahá’í communities in America is due to lack of
maturity on the part of the individual believers and their joint
function as a community. The vitality, however, of the faith and
devotion of the American Bahá’ís is over and over again demonstrated by
their victories — the one on their home teaching front being the latest.
They need to deepen themselves more in the teachings, and to learn to be
better examples to the world of what a Bahá’í is.

 

The Guardian deeply values the spirit in which you serve, and is
delighted over the results obtained. He will pray for your health and
happiness.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, protect, guide and reward you for your high
endeavours and splendid services, aid you to proclaim continually the
verities of His Faith, and contribute, in an ever-increasing measure, to
the consolidation and multiplication of its institutions,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

11 October 1948 \[Brazil\]

Miss Dinah Franca

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated May 17th, has taken a long
time to reach him, as you can see; but he was very happy to receive it,
and welcomes this opportunity of personally assuring you of his loving
prayers for the success of your future services to our glorious Faith — a
Faith which you have embraced with such joy and devotion.

He was very pleased to hear you have been so active, have attended the
Bahá’í congress for South America, and are constantly teaching the Cause
to the people.

He hopes that Bahia will become a strong centre of the Faith. Its
beautiful name, so close to that of the Faith itself, must endear it to
the hearts of the Brazilian believers, and encourage them to establish
there a thriving Bahá’í Community. Indeed, through Miss Holsapple’s long
and devoted services, it was the first place in South America to become
enkindled with the Light of Bahá’u’lláh!

With loving greetings to you and every wish for your success in serving
the Cause of God.

> R. Rabbani

P.S. I hope I have addressed you correctly?

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you have embraced with such zeal and
determination, guide your steps in the path of service, aid you to
acquire a profound knowledge of the verities of His Faith, and
contribute, in the days to come, to the consolidation and multiplication
of its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 November 1948 \[Panama\]

Mrs. Louise Caswell

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Our beloved Guardian was very happy to receive your letter, and the
clipping you enclosed, and he has instructed me to answer it on his
behalf.

The news that work has been done in the interior, and that there is now
such a firm and courageous soul there as Mrs. Fabrega, pleased him
greatly. Please convey to her the assurance of his loving prayers for
her progress and protection in her services to the Faith.

He was also glad to hear of the devotion of the dear native friends in
Panama, and he hopes their efforts, combined with those of the pioneers,
will soon result in a larger Bahá’í community there.

Your unsparing teaching services are very deeply valued, and he was very
pleased to hear you are going to assist the work in Colombia, where the
friends have passed successfully through so many severe trials to their
young faith.

…

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*The notable and indeed historic services you have rendered, in distant
fields, during so long a period, and under such trying circumstances,
deserve the highest praise. The Beloved is well pleased with your work
and will, no doubt, continue to watch over you, and guide you in your
meritorious labours. Persevere in your noble services, and assure your
dear co-workers of my deep and loving admiration for their achievements
and the spirit they manifest.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 November 1948 \[Brazil\]

Mrs. Margot Worley

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Our beloved Guardian was very pleased to hear from you and receive your
letter of July 15th, which took a very long time to reach Haifa.

Your and your dear husband’s devoted services in Bahia have been very
much appreciated, you may be sure. He fully realizes the obstacles to be
overcome in such a country are great, and no doubt opposition to the
Faith from orthodox elements will steadily increase, as the Cause grows
in membership and strength.

But of the ultimate victory there can be no doubt! The tragic thing is
to have to witness mankind starving to death spiritually, but too blind,
too perverse and misled, to take the Bread of Life offered by
Bahá’u’lláh! We must offer it, but then the choice remains with the
individual soul.

He was very pleased to hear your sister has accepted the Cause, and also
Dinah Franca. He hopes that your growth will be steady, in spite of all
the opposition you meet with, and he assures you he will pray in the
Holy Shrines that your devoted labours may be richly blessed, and you
and Mr. Worley be protected in your services to the Cause there.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your splendid services and those of your dear husband will never be
forgotten. I deeply appreciate the spirit that animates you, and will
continue to supplicate the Beloved to bless your work, cheer your heart,
and enable you to extend the range of your valued activities. Persevere
in your historic task, and be happy and confident.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 December 1948 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated November 1st, has been
received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He fully realizes the difficulties involved in maintaining such an
Assembly as that of Punta Arenas. But he urges the friends, and you, not
to lose heart, but rather to try new means of contacting a different
range of people. Perhaps, through becoming active in some social or
other type of clubs, or assistance in charitable works, or promotion of
United Nations Organization support — in ways such as these — you and the
believers may succeed in making new contacts which would not ordinarily
respond to public meetings, advertisements or broadcasts.

He will pray for your success and the protection of your Assembly, in
the Holy Shrines, and he greatly appreciates your determined and devoted
labours.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*I am so pleased to learn of the progress of your work in so important
and distant a field, and am profoundly grateful for your steadfast and
noble endeavours. Persevere in your glorious task and rest assured that
the Beloved will guide and sustain you in your labours, and will aid you
to render still more notable services to His Faith and its
institutions.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 January 1949 \[Guatemala\]

Conference care Natalie Chavez

Supplicating Almighty’s blessings deliberations. Urge attendants
concentrate methods designed extend scope teaching consolidate
Assemblies deepen knowledge spiritual administrative principles Faith
reinforce bonds uniting Central American believers.[^18]

30 January 1949 \[Guatemala\]

Congress care Natalia Chavez

Delighted success congress. Praying achievement plans deeply appreciate
assistance valued co-worker Dorothy Baker.

12 February 1949 \[Colombia\]

Mrs. Gayle Woolson

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 30th, has been
received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear from you, and appreciates very much indeed all
the wonderful work you have done and are doing for the Faith in the
important field of Latin America.

He will most certainly pray in the Holy Shrines for the work in
Colombia, and that your devoted efforts may be richly blessed and yield
a unique harvest in that country — a country which has been severely
tested, but also made great strides forward where the Faith is
concerned.

He was very pleased to hear the Central American Conference had been
such a success. The Latin friends are developing rapidly, and will, he
hopes, cover themselves with distinction in the days to come.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty continually and abundantly bless your truly remarkable
and exemplary labours, sustain you in your mighty efforts, aid you to
win still greater victories for His Faith, and add fresh laurels to the
crown you have won in its service,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 March 1949 \[Bolivia\]

Mrs. Yvonne de Cuéllar

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated February 23, has been
received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

He is very happy to hear you were able to be present at São Paulo, and
especially be with our dear Milly Collins, a truly noble and inspiring
soul!

 

He fully realizes how difficult it is for new Bahá’ís, still weak in the
Cause and, for the most part, struggling hard for a livelihood, to be
strong and to assume their responsibilities for themselves, instead of
always relying on others to do it for them! This has been true in every
country and practically every city in the beginning. Gradually some
strong souls arise who help the weak ones — as you and your dear husband
are doing — and this consolidates the work and carries it forward to a
more mature phase. He deeply appreciates the essential assistance you
are giving La Paz and Sucre.

 

He also is very pleased to hear your dear husband is translating “God
Passes By” and has finished the “Gleanings”. This is a most valuable
service to the Faith, and when these books are published they will
greatly strengthen the faith, and deepen the understanding, of the
Spanish-speaking believers.

 

No one who has not reached the age of 21 can be elected to an Assembly
or cast a vote….

 

He will certainly pray in the Holy Shrines ... for the success of your
and your husband’s devoted and much-appreciated services.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty shower His manifold blessings upon you, reward you for
your constant and meritorious services, remove every obstacle that
impedes the progress of your work, and enable you to win great and
memorable victories in the service of His Faith and its new-born
institutions,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

28 March 1949 \[Guatemala\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian was very touched to receive your loving greetings
and messages sent to him in the letters of Mrs. Baker, dated January 30,
and February 5. Owing to the great pressure of his work here at the
present time it is impossible for him to answer each one of you
individually. He feels sure you will understand this and excuse it.

The very marked progress the Cause is making throughout the Latin
American countries pleases him immensely; and leads him to believe that
the Bahá’ís there will be able to form and maintain their two National
Assemblies with success, and with great promise for the future work they
will be undertaking.

He urges you all to devote as much of your time and energies as possible
to teaching, and to stimulating your fellow-believers to ever greater
efforts in the service of our glorious Faith.

> He will remember all of you in his prayers in the Holy Shrines.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you, at
all times and under all conditions, and enable you to promote the vital
interests of His glorious Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

27 May 1949

The Bahá’ís of Santiago, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving greeting, sent on April 29, was received and the beloved
Guardian thanks you for it.

He hopes the Faith in Chile will make great progress during this Bahá’í
year, and further prepare the community there to become a befitting
pillar of the forthcoming South American National Bahá’í Assembly.

There is so much work for each single believer to do; each Bahá’í is
infinitely precious, and can and must act as a transmuting agent which
will turn the hearts of those souls who are truly seeking for truth into
pure gold.

He assures you one and all of his loving prayers for the advancement of
your work and your spiritual progress.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*Your welcome message cheered my heart, and reminded me afresh of the
splendid spirit of devotion that animates you in the service of our
beloved Faith. I feel truly proud of the record of your services, and
cherish the brightest hopes for your future activities. Persevere in
your noble task, and rest assured that the Beloved will richly reward
you for your meritorious achievements.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 June 1949 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated May 11, with copy of your
letter to the Inter-America Committee enclosed, has been received, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He also wishes to thank you for the photographs of the Assembly of
Santiago which you sent in your letter of May 3rd.

Regarding the matter of getting out stamps with a view to raising funds:
he sees no objection to this scheme, but it must be borne in mind that
we cannot sell these to non-Bahá’ís as this would mean that they were
supporting our Bahá’í Fund, and as you know we do not accept any money
from non-believers. It is our duty and privilege to give this great
message freely to the world.

He is happy to see the eagerness and devotion of the friends there; and
to witness their strong desire to assist the work going on in other
lands, and especially the building of the Shrine of the Báb and the
Temple in Chicago.

> He will pray that ways and means may be found of realizing your hopes.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your efforts, and enable you and your
fellow-members of the Teaching Committee to promote effectively the
interests of the Faith, contribute, in an ever-increasing measure, to
the condition of its new-born institutions, and proclaim its life-giving
verities, and demonstrate their truth and necessity, to the receptive
among your countrymen.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 July 1949 \[Chile\]

Mrs. Rosy Vodanovič

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Our beloved Guardian has received your letter, written as the secretary
of the outgoing Comité de Enseñanza Bahá’í para Sudamérica, and he has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Although he can well realize that your committee feels regrets at giving
up the work it has so devotedly, and with so much love, been carrying
on, he feels it is an excellent idea to have the opportunity be given to
other believers, in another South American area, to carry on the work
for a while, and thus gain valuable and needed experience in the service
of the Cause.

The progress which has been made in Latin America, the remarkable growth
of the Assemblies there, the increasing maturity of these new and
devoted servants of Bahá’u’lláh, pleases and astonishes him. He looks
forward with joy to the formation of the two National Assemblies in the
near future, and feels they will render the Bahá’í world many services,
both within their area of jurisdiction and in the international Bahá’í
community of which they will form a part.

Please share this letter with the new Comité de Enseñanza Bahá’í para
Sudamérica, and assure them of his most loving prayers for the success
of the work they are about to undertake.

May you in Santiago render many new services to our Faith there and in
Chile.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*I was so pleased to receive your welcome message, and I am deeply
touched by the sentiments you have expressed, and grateful for the
historic services you render. I will pray for their extension and
consolidation from the depths of my heart. Rest assured, be happy, and
persevere in your noble efforts.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 July 1949

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Havana, Cuba

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of June 26 has been received by our beloved Guardian and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The devoted and persevering labours of the believers in Cuba — led by your
Assembly — are a real source of joy and pride to him, and he hopes during
this coming year your teaching work will expand, and firm groups be
established in other centres there.

You now may be almost termed an “old Assembly”, tried and true, and
becoming more mature all the time!

Please convey to all the dear believers there his loving greetings, and
assure them he is praying for the success of their work for the Cause of
God.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*The work achieved by your Assembly and community is indeed worthy of
the highest praise. I am truly grateful to you and proud of your
achievements. I will supplicate our Beloved to guide your steps, bless
your endeavours, and aid you to extend continually the range of your
activities. Persevere in your glorious task, rest assured and be happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 September 1949 \[Bolivia\]

Madame Yvonne de Cuéllar

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of July 24 has been received by our beloved Guardian and he
has instructed me to answer it on his behalf and to thank you for the
photographs you enclosed of the Bahá’ís of Sucre.

 

The establishment of an Assembly there … is a very concrete achievement
on your part, and one he feels proud of. Also he was very glad to hear
of the lecture you gave to such a distinguished gathering, and of your
radio broadcasts, all of which will no doubt bear fruit in the future.

 

He will certainly pray for conditions to improve for dear … ; please
assure him of this and that the Guardian was very pleased to hear of his
courageous devotion, and obedience, in serving the Cause there in Sucre.

 

The news that your dear and devoted husband is now translating the full
text of “God Passes By” into Spanish was most welcome. This book will be
of great help, in Latin America and Spain, in teaching the Faith and
deepening the understanding of the believers themselves.

 

Although there is no doubt you could do much good in France, your
presence in South America is much more important during these formative
years for the Cause there.

 

> With loving greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. He was very glad to hear that the members of the Colonel’s family
are becoming Bahá’ís too!

 

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

 

*I was so touched by your welcome letter, and grateful for the
sentiments it expressed and the news it contained. For the wonderful
services you and your dear husband are rendering, so devotedly, so
energetically and loyally I will continue to pray from the depths of my
heart. Please assure him of my loving appreciation of his painstaking
labours. Persevere in your glorious task, and rest assured that the
Beloved is well pleased with you and will bless your high endeavours.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 September 1949

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter, dated September 1, has been received, and our beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

 

He feels the attitude taken by you and the Assembly of … towards the
remarkable healing powers exhibited by … , has been the right one. To
associate such things with the Cause directly would be only to
ultimately injure its reputation and misrepresent it, as her
powers — which are certainly very hard to find any logical explanation
for — are not common to Bahá’ís, but rather a phenomenon seen among
individuals (rarely) who are derived from all sorts of religious
backgrounds.

 

As to its being direct inspiration from Bahá’u’lláh, we certainly cannot
say this. We can only be grateful that she has actually been able to
help people who direly needed it. She herself being a devoted Bahá’í,
there is no reason why she should not be known as one. But certainly it
should in no way be connected with her healing powers.

 

He appreciates the devoted, careful and loyal attitude of the … Bahá’ís,
who have certainly shown wisdom and understanding in meeting this
situation, and he is glad you wrote to him about it.

 

> Please assure all the friends there of his loving prayers on their
> behalf.

 

> With warm greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear co-worker:*

 

*I wish to assure you of my deep and loving appreciation of your devoted
and constant endeavours for the promotion of our beloved Faith. I will
supplicate the Beloved to bless and sustain you, and enable you to
safeguard the interests of His Faith and promote continually its vital
interests.*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

12 October 1949 \[Peru\]

Miss Eve Nicklin

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 2nd was received, and our beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear the Cause is more firmly established now in
Punta Arenas, and that Tony Fillon is going to be there after you have
left.

When you write Wilhelmina Willems please tell her how happy the Guardian
is to learn of her devotion, and that she remained in Punta Arenas. Also
assure her he will remember her and the work there in his prayers.

He hopes that the committee, now transferred to Lima, will achieve great
things and he will pray for its work to go ahead smoothly.

> With warm love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. I am sending this care of Horace, as I am not sure your Lima
address still holds good after so many months!

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

*Your invaluable services, rendered with such exemplary devotion and in
such distant fields, evoke my deep-felt admiration. I will continue to
pray for your success from the depths of my heart. Persevere in your
meritorious and indeed historic labours, and rest assured that the
Beloved is well pleased with the standard of your achievements in the
service of His Faith.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 October 1949 \[Chile\]

Mr. Alexander Reid

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

I am sorry that your letter to our beloved Guardian dated June 30, did
not get answered before. However, he has instructed me to answer it now,
as it had gotten temporarily mislaid.

He would appreciate your going to Punta Arenas very much, as your
presence there would assist the local work greatly — which often suffers
from believers moving elsewhere.

There could be no harm in inquiring into the marble near Punta Arenas as
regards its suitability for possible use in the future Temple. But, in
view of the tremendous amount of work ahead of the Bahá’ís everywhere,
including South America, it is difficult to foresee when such an
undertaking could be financed!

Mrs. … should not neglect to have proper medical treatment for her
condition. The Bahá’ís need their health in order to work for the Cause,
and many of them, through neglect and overwork, get into very nervous
conditions which react on the work they do with others. Her devotion is
truly exemplary, and he will certainly pray for her….

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-worker:*

*I wish to assure you of my regret at the delay in answering your
letter, and of my deep appreciation of your valued services for which I
feel deeply grateful. I will supplicate the Beloved to bless abundantly
your high endeavours, remove every obstacle that impedes the progress of
your activities, and enable you to win memorable victories in the days
to come.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 October 1949 \[Uruguay\]

Miss Flora Emily Hottes

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 13th was received, but until now our beloved Guardian
has been too busy to reply to it.

Please assure dear Emilia Martinez that the Guardian always answers
letters, and in case she received no reply, he wants her to know he will
certainly continue praying for her, and he deeply appreciates her loyal
and devoted services, services which he greatly admires. Sometimes
letters get lost, no doubt, but the Spanish letters he always makes a
point of replying to as soon as possible, as he feels these relatively
new believers deserve every encouragement.

He was sorry to hear of the death of Mr. Gambetta — such a devoted soul,
who has now, no doubt, received his eternal reward.

He was very pleased to hear of the progress being made there, which is
largely due to your loving and wise service. Your presence there is very
important, and he will pray that the condition of your dear parents may
improve and thus permit you to remain at this important post and
continue your invaluable work.

Please give his loving greetings to all the dear believers there in
Montevideo.

> With warmest love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my abiding appreciation of your valiant labours, your
solid achievements, and above all, your exemplary spirit so powerfully
manifested in the course of your meritorious services to the Faith and
its God-given institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

25 October 1949

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters of January 15 and June 9 and 29 have been received and our
beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

… The Bahá’ís, in spite of their self-sacrificing desire to give the
last drop of their strength to serving the Cause, must guard against
utterly depleting their forces and having breakdowns. For this can
sometimes do more harm than good, because they are so bound up in the
lives of others….

 

There is no doubt that there is vicarious atonement for others, and our
sufferings sometimes can be in the nature of a sacrifice accepted for
others. But where to draw the line is a mystery. If you take better care
of your own health, and build up your reserves, it would certainly be
better for you and for your work. Then your sensitive, yearning heart,
although you may still often suffer for and with others, will be better
able to withstand its trials, and you will not get so exhausted, which
is certainly no asset to your work for the Cause.

 

Your deep devotion touches him very much and he will pray that your
heart’s desire, of always serving the Guardianship, may be granted.

 

The great spiritual disease, which must be shunned utterly, is
Covenant-breaking. But no doubt communities have their “ailments”, so to
speak, which are usually inharmony among the friends or the ever-active
egos of some of the members. These conditions affect sensitive people
like yourself, but the cure for them is to teach the friends to more
deeply love and understand the Faith and to unitedly learn to apply the
teachings to their individual and joint lives.

 

> With warmest love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Dear and valued co-worker:*

 

*Your magnificent services to the Faith, rendered so devotedly, so
energetically, under such difficult circumstances, and in such distant
fields, deserve the highest praise, and will increasingly attract the
blessings of Bahá’u’lláh, Who is well pleased with the quality of your
achievements. I will continue to pray for your happiness, your success
and the realization of every hope you cherish for the promotion of the
Faith and the consolidation of its institutions in Latin America.
Persevere, be happy and confident,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

5 November 1949

To the Members of the Regional Bahá’í

Committee for Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of August 23rd has just been received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He hopes the labours of your committee will not only be a means of
rapidly spreading the Faith throughout Chile, and of establishing and
fostering new groups, but also through its example and its official
bulletin, be an instrument for promoting the greatest unity and harmony
amongst the believers of Chile.

It is better to be a small but united and loving family than to be a
large community of people who are indifferent to each other, critical of
each other, and not *one* in their love for Bahá’u’lláh. This does not
mean you should not make every effort to increase your numbers, to
broadcast the Faith’s message to the people, and to keep the Cause
before the eyes of the public. But to create love, unity and solidarity
amongst the Bahá’ís of Chile should be considered one of your paramount
tasks and your sacred privilege.

He will be eagerly anticipating news of your achievements, and has
confidence in your capacity to carry out a wonderful work for the Cause
there during the coming months.

Please thank dear Mrs. Steward for translating your letter. As no one
here reads Spanish, or I should say, knows Spanish, it helps greatly
when an English translation is given.

Wishing you all every success and trusting your new Regional Bulletin
will be of great help to your work, the Guardian sends you his loving
greetings.

> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your meritorious endeavours,
guide every step you take in the path of service, remove all obstacles
that impede the progress of your labours, and enable you to fulfil every
desire you cherish for the effective promotion of His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 November 1949

The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Havana, Cuba

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 1st has been received, and our beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has not written any article on reincarnation, nor, unfortunately, has
he any time to do so at present. He suggests you forward your request to
the American National Assembly; perhaps they can have one of the
believers supply you with a suitable article on this subject.

As the work of the beloved Cause is steadily growing everywhere,
particularly in Latin America, Europe and Australia, he is increasingly
called upon to answer the many letters of the new believers and
Assemblies. This, together with the construction of the Holy Shrine of
the Báb, is taking up all his time, and he has none left for the writing
work which he would be so pleased to undertake.

He urges your Assembly to devote itself to the spread of the Cause
throughout Cuba, and to the establishment of further groups there.

He will pray for all of you and deeply appreciates your loyal and
devoted services.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep admiration for your splendid and valiant
efforts for the spread of our beloved Faith, and of my constant and
ardent prayers for your spiritual advancement and the success of your
noble and meritorious efforts for the consolidation and multiplication
of the institutions of our beloved Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 November 1949 \[Cuba\]

Praying success deliberations Conference Deepest appreciation....

14 November 1949 \[Brazil\]

Mr. Vivaldo Ramos

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Our beloved Guardian received your letter of October 24, with the
encouraging news you gave him of the success of the conference held in
Brazil and the progress the Cause is making there. He has instructed me
to answer you on his behalf.

 

He deeply appreciates the services you are rendering the Faith there,
and your co-operation with the Comité de Enseñanza Bahá’í para
Sudamérica will no doubt strengthen and assist the work of that
Committee greatly.

 

He wishes to assure you of his prayers for you, and your dear wife; he
hopes you will accomplish great things together for the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh in South America.

 

> With loving greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you are serving with such zeal and
devotion, reward you abundantly for your services and high endeavours,
bless and sustain you always, and enable you to win great and memorable
victories for His Faith and its institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

15 November 1949 \[Carlos Bulling, Chile\]

Assure attendants deepest loving appreciation admiration spirit ardent
prayers success high endeavours.

15 November 1949

To the Regional Teaching Committee of Colombia

and the believers who attended the first Bahá’í

Conference of Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 8th was received, as well as the programme of
your conference, and delighted our Guardian’s heart. He has instructed
me to answer you on his behalf.

This new evidence of the great progress being made by the Latin American
believers, in preparation for their two National Spiritual Assemblies,
is very encouraging.

It should hearten the friends to realize that in the very
country — Colombia — where the Faith has had so many obstacles placed in its
path, and been attacked by the one who at first rendered it valuable
services, such marked progress has been made. This shows the mysterious
power in this Cause of God, which rises above every test and trial, and
derives strength from persecution, and vitality and new adherents from
oppression.

He urges you all to redouble your efforts in the field of teaching, and
to go forth with confidence to conquer the citadels of men’s hearts in
the name of Bahá’u’lláh.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-workers:*

*Your most welcome letter cheered my heart, and I greatly value the
sentiments you have expressed. I will supplicate the blessings of the
Almighty on your behalf, that your meritorious labours may yield the
richest fruit, and that your exertions may increasingly contribute to
the progress and consolidation of our glorious Faith. Persevere, rest
assured and be happy.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 November 1949

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter, dated October 19th, has been received by our beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very sorry to hear of your physical condition and advises you to
consult another tuberculosis specialist, and if he also feels you should
go to a sanatorium, then you should do so. Meantime the Guardian assures
you he will supplicate for your healing in the Holy Shrines.

When you again consider hard work (always providing the doctors feel a
rest in a sanatorium is essential for you at present), he feels you
should consult them, and take the kind of job that is best for your
health.

Wherever you are, by your spirit, example and words, as well as through
correspondence, you can serve the Faith we all love so dearly. At
present you must put your health first for the sake of your family.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you are serving with such devotion,
reward you for your labours, remove all obstacles from your path, and
enable you to win great victories for His Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

25 November 1949 \[Mexico\]

Overjoyed Conference supplicating richest blessings heartfelt gratitude
deepest love.

19 December 1949 \[La Paz Conference, Bolivia\]

Deeply appreciate assurance loyalty ardently supplicating blessings
outcome deliberations deepest love.

1 January 1950 \[Argentina\]

Assure attendants heartfelt loving prayers richest blessings conference
deepest love.

26 January 1950

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

of Panama \[City\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated December 9, with enclosed photostat copy of a letter
from the President of Panama, was received, and our beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is very pleased to see you are persevering in your efforts to
consolidate your position there, and to obtain land for the Community.
He urges you not to be discouraged or depressed, but rest assured that
Bahá’u’lláh will assist you. Every set-back this Cause receives is
invariably a means of ensuring a future victory, for God will never
permit His Faith to be put out or uprooted.

 

> He will certainly pray for your success in the Holy Shrines.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve with such zeal, fidelity and
devotion, bless your meritorious endeavours, guide and sustain you at
all times, enable you to extend continually the range of your
activities, and win great and memorable victories for His Faith and its
nascent institutions.*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

20 February 1950 \[Chile\]

Mr. Alexander Reid

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Our beloved Guardian was very happy to learn from your letter of
January 25 that you are now in Punta Arenas. It is a pity so many of the
chapters of “Some Answered Questions” are being left out of the Spanish
edition. However, it is at present more important to get the book in the
hands of Spanish-speaking people than to have it complete. Future
editions can have added the other chapters.

 

> As regards your question:

 

The Master uses this term “the Divine Reality is sanctified from
singleness” in order to forcibly impress us with the fact that the
Godhead is unknowable and that to define It is impossible; we cannot
contain It in such concepts as singleness and plurality which we apply
to things we know and can experience. He uses the method of exaggerated
emphasis in order to drive home His thought that we know the sun
indirectly through its rays, the Godhead indirectly through the
Manifestations of God.

 

> With warm wishes for the success of your teaching work there,

 

> Yours in His service,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious efforts, guide and sustain you
in your arduous activities, and crown your high endeavours with signal
success,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

13 March 1950

The Spiritual Assembly of the

Bahá’ís of Santiago, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of February 8th has been received, and our beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear you are now incorporated legally, and that
this will form a valuable precedent for other Bahá’í Assemblies there
and enable them to incorporate too.

He would like to receive a photostatic copy of your incorporation
papers, to be placed in the Mansion at Bahjí.

You may be sure he will pray for the success of your Assembly’s devoted
services to the Cause of God.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear and valued co-workers:*

*Your letter brought great joy to my heart, and I welcome, and am truly
grateful for, the sentiments you have expressed. I will pray for your
success from the depths of my heart, that the Almighty may continually
and abundantly bless your high endeavours, remove all obstacles from
your path, and enable you to win great and memorable victories for His
Faith.*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 March 1950 \[Bolivia\]

Mrs. Yvonne de Cuéllar

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 14 reached our beloved Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He hopes you and your husband will be able to remain longer in Bolivia
to carry the work there to a more stable point before depriving the
friends of your valuable support.

It seems as if, in the extreme corruption of present-day society, it is
becoming more and more difficult to live as a staunch Bahá’í! But this
is only a phase; it must pass, and the friends, as you say, must put
their trust in God and make a sincere effort. We cannot have Bahá’ís
divided amongst themselves, and this is one of the things adherence to
political parties does.

He was pleased to see the Congress was a success. Great progress is
being made, but as you are so close to it, and struggling all the time,
you cannot always see it!

> With warm Bahá’í love to you and your dear husband,

R. Rabbani

P.S. The Guardian will specially pray for Mr. Alvarez’s teaching work in
Sucre.

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you are serving with such zeal and
devotion, reward you for your meritorious labours, remove all obstacles
from your path, and enable you to win great victories for His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 March 1950 \[Peru\]

Miss Eve Nicklin

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 16 was received, with its enclosures, and our
beloved Guardian thanks you for the photo you sent.

He feels you should, indeed, stay on until 1951 and help the friends at
this important juncture. You have accomplished so much there, and your
work is very deeply valued by our Guardian.

The de Cuéllars are certainly exemplary in their devotion. They should
never become discouraged because the Cause of God moves forward in
mysterious ways, and suddenly great growth is seen. For so many years
Leonora Holsapple was like a candle burning by itself in Latin
America — and now look at the first harvest that is in! Others will surely
come.

He will specially pray for the success of the teaching trip being
undertaken by Mr. Alvarez to Sucre. It is most encouraging to see the
Latin friends arising to do their own work.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your high and constant endeavours, remove every
obstacle from your path, and enable you to enrich the record of your
splendid and unforgettable pioneer services in distant fields,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 March 1950 \[Panama\]

Mrs. Cora H. Oliver

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter, with photos enclosed, dated January 29, has been received
by our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

He is so busy these days that the mail is just being squeezed into a
smaller space of time — and he has less strength for it, for the work of
the Shrine absorbs so much time and energy! So excuse the brevity of
this reply. He deeply appreciates all you are accomplishing there and
the progress made.

He rejoices over the San Blas believer, and will pray this noble soul
may enlighten many of his race.

He will pray for the success of your teaching trip; of great help to the
friends, he feels sure.

Regarding your moving into the Zone or not: he thinks this is a matter
for consultation with the Assembly and the Inter-America Committee.

> With warmest Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for the success of your meritorious
and continued efforts for the promotion of our beloved Faith and the
consolidation of its nascent institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 April 1950 \[Bolivia\]

Delighted election La Paz Assembly loving prayers.

7 May 1950 \[Bahá’í Congress, Lima, Peru\]

Deeply touched message welcome pledge supplicating fervently abundant
blessings realization fondest hopes appreciate support services dear
Dorothy urge redouble efforts deepest love.

16 June 1950 \[El Salvador\]

To the Believers who attended the Bahá’í Congress

> at San Salvador, April 30, 1950

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your welcome message, informing our beloved Guardian of the success of
the Congress, was received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his
behalf.

He was very happy to see that so many Central American delegates were
able to be present, and he feels sure the consultation they had with
each other will prove of invaluable assistance in carrying on the work
throughout that area during this year.

As the Latin American believers are so soon to assume authority over the
management of their Bahá’í affairs, each day may be said to be of the
utmost importance. The more mature and experienced the friends become,
the more easy will be the task of the two new National Assemblies so
soon to be formed.

He urges you all, therefore, to devote yourselves to assisting the
friends to become united, aware of their great responsibilities as
believers, and cognizant of the nature of Bahá’í administration, which
is so different in spirit from the political machinations and ambitions
we see in the world about us.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-workers:*

*Your joint message cheered my heart, and served to heighten my feelings
of admiration for the spirit that animates you in the service of our
beloved Faith. I will supplicate the Almighty to bless continually your
efforts, remove every obstacle in your path, and enable you to promote
the best interests of His Cause, and contribute effectively to the
consolidation of the splendid achievements of the believers in the
republics of Central America in recent years.*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 August 1950 \[Rangvald Taetz, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of June 28 reached our beloved Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was most happy to learn you and your dear family are setting forth as
pioneers for Montevideo, and he assures you his loving prayers will
accompany you all the time.

 

It is a great privilege and blessing to give one’s life to the service
of this Holy Faith, especially at this hour when the need is so great
and humanity so lost in spiritual darkness. He wishes you every success
in this new undertaking.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless continually your meritorious efforts, guide and
sustain you always, and enable you to win great and memorable victories
for His Faith and its institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

5 September 1950

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of

> Santiago, Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of July 21 was received, as well as the copy of your
incorporation certificate — which the Guardian was delighted to get and
which he will put in the Mansion at Bahjí.

He is very happy to see the steady progress of the work in Chile, and he
urges your Assembly to extend every assistance it can to the Bahá’ís of
Punta Arenas in order to preserve this historic prize — the southernmost
Bahá’í Assembly in the entire world! All the work of the Cause is
important there, but this spot has special significance and is a
precious trust of the Chilean believers.

He assures you he takes the greatest interest in the progress of your
Bahá’í activities, and will pray for all of you.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Dear co-workers:*

*I wish to assure you of my deepfelt admiration for the spirit that
animates you in your activities in the service of our beloved Faith, and
of my constant and ardent prayers on your behalf, that the Beloved,
Whose Cause you serve so devotedly and determinedly, may guide, bless
and sustain you and enable you to promote with increasing effectiveness
the vital interests of His Cause,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 September 1950 \[Sheila Rice-Wray, Paraguay\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 16th has been received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very glad to see you are now active in such an important centre as
Paraguay, and he assures you he will ardently pray for the speedy
achievement of your goal.

Please convey his loving greetings to the believers there, and urge them
to not become discouraged, but redouble their efforts to serve the Faith
and re-establish their Assembly.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you promote with such devotion, zeal and
perseverance, reward you for your services, guide every step you take,
and fulfil every desire you cherish, and enable you to win great
victories in the service of His Faith and its infant institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 October 1950 \[Haiti\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of July 17 has been received, and our beloved Guardian is
very pleased to see you are serving the Faith in Haiti once again.

 

He urges you to do all you can to promote unity and love amongst the
members of the community there, as this seems to be their greatest need.

 

So often young communities, in their desire to administer the Cause,
lose sight of the fact that these spiritual relationships are far more
important and fundamental than the rules and regulations which must
govern the conduct of community affairs.

 

He will certainly pray for the success of your labours, and urges you to
remain there as long as possible.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. Please convey his loving greetings to all the friends there.

 

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you
always, and enable you to win great and memorable victories for His
Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

5 October 1950

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter dated August 14 has been received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The Guardian sees no reason why you should not continue to help sick
people. As he wrote some of the believers regarding this matter
previously, as long as you do not say you are healing them as a Bahá’í,
or because you are a Bahá’í (because we have no “healers” in the Cause
as such) there can be certainly no objection to your doing it. On the
contrary, to be able to help another soul who is in suffering is a great
bounty from God.

 

He urges you to do all you can to spread the Faith, and also to be
patient with those who do not understand you. People are almost always
suspicious of something that is different or unusual, and we must excuse
this in them as mankind is immature still.

 

He urges you to be happy and confident in your services to Bahá’u’lláh’s
Faith.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty guide and sustain you in your services to the Faith,
remove all obstacles from you path, and enable you to promote,
effectively and at all times, the vital interests of His Cause and of
its institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

6 October 1950

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters dated April 21st, May 1st, and August 1st have been
received, as well as the letter (and your translation) of Mr. … , the
reply to which I am enclosing herewith.

> The Guardian … was pleased to see the Assembly was re-formed this year
> and not lost.

Regarding the matters you mention in your letters: he feels that great
tact and patience should be shown the person you mentioned in your
August letter as, even if his behaviour is difficult, he is a member of
the community and an early one. He would suggest prayers be offered on
his behalf, and kindness be shown him as his conduct may change and may
be due to an unbalanced nature rather than lack of faith in the Cause.

The Guardian does not advise sending to the clergy copies of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet to the Pope. It will not, he feels, convince them
or awaken them, and might, on the contrary, stir up a great deal of
antagonism.

The Spiritual Assembly needs a quorum to function, and he urges the
active members to try and persuade, lovingly and gently, the inactive
ones to at least try to be present once a month at Assembly meetings.
These are more essential than the Nineteen Day Feast.

…

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Please excuse the fact that this letter to you both also replies to
questions concerning … personally, but the Guardian is so busy, and this
joint answer makes it a little easier for him!

P.P.S. Work is being done in America on Mírzá Abu’l Faḍl’s book by
Mrs. Marzieh Gail. The Guardian suggests you refer your question to her,
care of the National Spiritual Assembly, as she knows both Abu’l Faḍl’s
book in the original and the Qur’án well. The Guardian is too behind in
his correspondence at present to go into this matter. Ask the
Inter-America Committee what has been translated into Spanish already.

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and
the success of your efforts for the promotion of our beloved Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 November 1950 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter dated September 18 was received, and our beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf….

 

He was sorry to hear no progress has been made in Sucre, and will
certainly continue to pray for the work there and in La Paz. You should
urge the American National Spiritual Assembly to send a pioneer to
assist you in these few months before the elections of the two Latin
American National Assemblies.

 

There is so much darkness and turmoil in the political world at present.
But we see the slow, steady and deep consolidation of the Faith going on
all over the world. We must fix our eyes on these large evidences of
progress, and not become too distressed over temporary local set-backs.

 

Your devoted services as a family are deeply appreciated, and he urges
you to never become discouraged.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you ... of my heartfelt admiration for the spirit that so
powerfully animates you in the service of our beloved Faith, and of my
profound gratitude for the many and splendid achievements which have
distinguished the record of your stewardship to the Faith you love so
dearly,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

14 November 1950 \[Elena Marsella Fernie, Dominican Republic\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter dated July 27 was received, as well as photos enclosed, and
our beloved Guardian did not write you at once because you stated you
would later be sending translations of the by-laws. However, as these
have not come, he has instructed me to answer you.

Incidentally, he feels this is a matter for the American National
Spiritual Assembly and its Legal Committee to decide on, and there is no
need to send the documents to him, as that body is quite competent to
take the necessary action.

Your long and devoted services to the Cause in Ciudad Trujillo have been
deeply appreciated by the Guardian, and he feels you and the believers
there have made real progress in consolidating the work and making the
Faith known to the public.

He will certainly pray the plans for the youth to contribute to the Fund
may be successful, and is delighted to hear how active and enthusiastic
they are.

As the two Latin American National Spiritual Assemblies will soon come
into being, the responsibilities of the friends increase accordingly,
and he has great hopes for the way they will arise to the challenge of
their new undertaking, so important to the work in the Americas and the
Bahá’í world in general.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved of our hearts guide, sustain and bless you always,
remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to promote
effectively the vital interests of His Faith and its God-given
institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

8 January 1951 \[Venezuela\]

Asamblea Espiritual de los Bahá’ís

de Caracas

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of December 12 has been received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He deeply appreciated the sentiments you expressed in your letter, and
was most happy to see with what love, loyalty and devotion you are
serving the Faith there and holding aloft the banner of Bahá’u’lláh.

The most rapid way of spreading the Faith has always been to show forth
by example what it can mean in the lives of men. Unity and brotherly
love amongst the Bahá’ís is the surest way of attracting the hearts of
the people, for it is hatred and lack of unity which are destroying the
world.

He will pray for each and every one of you, and for the success of your
services to Bahá’u’lláh.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, remove all obstacles
from your path, and aid you to consolidate your splendid achievement,
and win still greater victories for His Faith and its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 January 1951 \[Ruth Moffett, Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated November 1, 12, 1949; March 21, May 14, and
November 25, 1950, together with their enclosures, have been received,
and our beloved Guardian has at last found time to answer them. His
mail, as you can imagine, is becoming an overwhelming burden!

 

He is very pleased about the progress made in Cuba, which you have been
so instrumental in fostering, and he feels your best field of action
until next April is Central America. You should be directed by the
Committee where to go and what to do.

…

Regarding the questions you asked him: he feels a “declaration” card is
not necessary. The less we tie people down with such things the better.

The American National Spiritual Assembly is the one to tell you after
how long a period of inactivity a person’s name can be removed from the
voting list. Sometimes people are at heart Bahá’ís, but temperament or
circumstances keep them inactive.

 

It would be good for … to get out in the active teaching field; she
should, however, consult with the committees in charge of the areas
where she plans to teach, just like anyone else.

 

The Guardian has a high esteem for the self-sacrificing attitude of
Mr. Moffett; if he can enable you to remain in the teaching field it is
a great service at this critical time.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. He will certainly pray for …

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

7 February 1951 \[Miss G. D. Sholtis, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 24th has been received, and our beloved Guardian
has instructed me to reply to you on his behalf.

He was delighted to note the progress the Cause is making there, and
that you are welcoming seven new believers into the fold.

You may be sure he will pray for them; and he urges you to continue
their education after they become voting members, and deepen them in an
understanding of the Faith’s essentials, and especially the Covenant; as
this is the rock of strength to all the friends; and we know that many
tempests may lie ahead in the future for these dear souls to pass
through, as well as for all of us.

> Your devoted services are much appreciated, you may be sure.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bountifully reward you for your labours, guide every
step you take in the path of service, and enable you to win great
victories for His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 February 1951 \[Chile\]

Miss Flora E. Hottes

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters dated the 28th of September, 1950 and the 7th of January,
1951, have been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf. As he has a great deal to do, I will make it
very brief, in order to spare him as much as possible any extra work.

He is very happy to see that, through the love and understanding of your
dear parents and their willingness to sacrifice for the Faith, you have
again gone forth into the pioneer field; and you may be sure that his
prayers will be offered for the success of your work, and for the dear
friends in Mexico whom you find so faithful and devoted.

The letter of Srta. Morente arrived recently, and the answer has been
mailed a few days ago. If any previous letter from her had reached him,
he would have certainly replied to her.

> With warmest Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 February 1951 \[Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

This is just a little line of acknowledgement to assure you that the
messages you sent our beloved Guardian in the letter you signed with
Miss Cheney in Panama City, and dated May 25, 1950, were much
appreciated.

He has been very encouraged to see the way the travelling teachers have
been carrying forward the work in Central and South America; and it has
made him particularly happy to note that believers who are natives of
Latin America have arisen with such devotion to strengthen the faith of
their fellow-believers, and give the Message to new souls. I am
referring to the devoted activities of Miss Chávez and Mr. Corgas.

As the hour approaches for the formation of the two new National
Spiritual Assemblies, his thoughts are more and more with the believers
in that part of the world, and his loving prayers offered on their
behalf, and for the success of their services to Bahá’u’lláh at this
important period in Bahá’í history.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings to you all,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote the best interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 February 1951 \[Peru\]

To the Believers who attended the

> Fourth Bahá’í Congress of South America
>
> May 9, 1950

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian received your affectionate greetings, and
appreciated the sentiments you expressed very much; but as he has been
too busy to attend to his correspondence during the past months, you
have not received an answer earlier.

He feels sure you will understand this delay; and in your many Bahá’í
activities, seek to raise part of the heavy burden he is bearing,
through assuming more responsibility yourselves, and urging the Bahá’ís
everywhere to play their part in sustaining the administrative
activities of the Faith.

The Latin American believers are now launching into an independent
Bahá’í existence through the formation of their two first National
Assemblies. Although they will still work in close collaboration and
co-operation with their North American brethren, they will nevertheless
find their burden of responsibility heavy and inescapable. It is their
privilege, and a challenge to their characters and their devotion, to
bear this new burden for the Faith with dignity and ability.

He assures you all, and through you, your fellow-believers, that his
ardent prayers are surrounding the Latin friends at this time; and his
hopes for their future services are very high.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you, and enable you to promote
effectively the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 April 1951

To the Believers who were gathered

> together on March 25th in
>
> Kingston, Jamaica

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian appreciated very much your messages of love and
devotion which Mrs. Moffett kindly forwarded to him.

He wishes to assure you that he will pray for you in the holy Shrines,
and that your work for the Cause of God, which you have undertaken with
such a spirit of dedication, may be richly blessed.

He urges you to persevere in your efforts; and, with hearts united in
love for Bahá’u’lláh and for each other, spread the Message there in the
West Indies.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 April 1951 \[Conventions Latin America\]

HAIL JOYOUS HEART CONVOCATION FIRST TWIN HISTORIC CONVENTIONS FOLLOWERS
FAITH BAHÁ’U’LLÁH CENTRAL AMERICA MEXICO ANTILLES SOUTH AMERICA
ASSEMBLED ELECT TWIN NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES CONSTITUTING SUSTAINING PILLARS
DIVINELY APPOINTED ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER LATIN AMERICA. CONGRATULATE
ASSEMBLED DELEGATES MAGNIFICENT TRIUMPH MARKING CULMINATION FOURTEEN
YEAR OLD PROCESS LINKING CONCLUDING YEARS FIRST WITH OPENING DECADE
SECOND BAHÁ’Í CENTURY. ACCLAIM FULFILMENT VITAL OBJECTIVE TWO MOMENTOUS
CAMPAIGNS SUCCESSIVELY LAUNCHED BEYOND CONFINES NORTH AMERICAN CONTINENT
BY AMERICAN BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY CONFORMITY ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S DIVINE PLAN.
GRATEFULLY RECOGNIZE IN THESE EPOCH-MAKING ASSEMBLAGES HELD
SIMULTANEOUSLY PERU PANAMA REPRESENTING WELLNIGH FOUR SCORE LOCALITIES
SPREAD OVER AREA STRETCHING MEXICO MAGALLANES EMBRACING INCORPORATED
COMMUNITIES ALMOST ALL CAPITAL CITIES LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS INITIAL
REPERCUSSIONS CLARION CALL VOICED EIGHTY YEARS AGO BAHÁ’U’LLÁH MOST HOLY
BOOK ADDRESSED COLLECTIVELY RULERS REPUBLICS WESTERN HEMISPHERE. APPEAL
INCOMING NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES STANDING THRESHOLD SECOND EPOCH NOW
UNFOLDING EVOLUTION FAITH BAHÁ’U’LLÁH LATIN AMERICA ARISE COMPLETE UNITY
EXEMPLARY FIDELITY GREATEST WISDOM UTMOST DEDICATION UNSWERVING RESOLVE
HEROIC SELF-SACRIFICE BEFITTINGLY DISCHARGE THREEFOLD SACRED INESCAPABLE
RESPONSIBILITIES FIRST CONSOLIDATE TWO NEWLY ERECTED PILLARS WORLD
ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER FAITH SECOND STIMULATE PROPAGATION ITS TEACHINGS
THIRD ENRICH SPIRITUAL LIFE DEEPEN UNDERSTANDING ITS AVOWED SUPPORTERS.
DESPATCHED THROUGH DISTINGUISHED CO-WORKER AMELIA COLLINS TWO LOCKS
BLESSED HAIR BAHÁ’U’LLÁH AS INAUGURAL GIFTS FIRST COMMUNITIES BELONGING
LATIN RACES ATTAINING MATURITY ACHIEVING DISTINCTION THROUGH FORMATION
INDEPENDENT NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES TO BE DEPOSITED PRESERVED POSTERITY TWO
SPECIALLY INSTITUTED NATIONAL ARCHIVES DESIGNED COMMEMORATE TWIN
OUTSTANDING SPIRITUAL ADMINISTRATIVE VICTORIES WON COURSE FORMATIVE AGE
BAHÁ’Í DISPENSATION SHEDDING GREAT LUSTRE ANNALS OPENING DECADE SECOND
BAHÁ’Í CENTURY.\
SHOGHI

23 April 1951 \[Cuba\]

Delighted loving appreciation.[^19]

26 April 1951 \[Convention South America, Peru\]

PROFOUNDLY APPRECIATE SENTIMENTS ASSEMBLED DELEGATES STOP PRAYING
UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS FULFILMENT OBJECTIVES.

8 May 1951

Comite Regional Bahá’í para Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated the 25th of April has been received; and our beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He appreciates very much the work you are doing, and the bulletin you
are responsible for.

Now that there is a South American National Assembly, the responsibility
for the work of the Cause will fall directly on the shoulders of the
Latin American believers; and he has great hopes for the work they will
achieve during the coming year, the first year of their Bahá’í lives as
an independent community.

> He assures you all of his loving prayers for the success of your
> labours.
>
> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty guide, sustain and bless you, remove all obstacles
from your path, and enable you to win great victories in the service of
His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

4 June 1951 \[Colombia\]

Asamblea Espiritual de los Bahá’ís de Medellín

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of Jalál 17, 108, has been received by our beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was delighted to see your Assembly has been formed this year of nine
active believers, and he hopes that during this year you will steadily
increase in numbers and form a firm and active community there.

The Latin American Bahá’ís must be very happy about the historic step
taken in forming two National Assemblies for the republics of Central
and South America. This is the dawn of a new period in the unfoldment of
the Cause of God in those lands, and although, no doubt, great tests
will have to be met and overcome, great bounties will flow from on high
also.

He urges you all to work together for the spread of the Faith in the
greatest love and unity.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, remove all obstacles from
your path, and aid you to win great and memorable victories for His
Faith and its nascent institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 September 1951

Spiritual Assembly of the

Bahá’ís of Bahia, Brazil

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 20 took some time to reach the beloved Guardian,
hence the delay in answering you. Also, he is very burdened with mail,
which holds up his replies.

 

He feels the Faith has entered on an entirely new phase of its
development in Central and South America, and one which holds great
promise. Already the Latin friends are taking hold of the work with
strong and devoted hands, and he is most encouraged to see this.

 

Bahia, the first town to have a Spiritual Assembly in Latin America,
must ever show forth an example of loyalty, devotion, and achievement.
He feels sure you will all live up to your high responsibility, and he
will pray for your success.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty guide your steps, sustain you in your activities,
remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win great and
memorable victories in the service of His glorious Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

7 September 1951

To the new believers who wrote the

> Guardian from San José, Costa Rica,
>
> on July 30, 1951

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian is most happy to have this opportunity of welcoming
you into the service of this glorious Faith of ours.

He urges you to study the teachings deeply, as the knowledge thus
acquired will confirm your faith, and enable you to teach others its
truths.

He wishes you every success in this new spiritual life you have entered
upon.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved reward you for your labours, guide every step you take,
aid you to acquire a deeper understanding of the essentials of His
Faith, and contribute to its promotion,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 September 1951 \[Eve Nicklin, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian thanks you for the material you sent under separate
cover, mentioned in your letter of August 15, and was pleased to see
your committee is now active.

He wishes you every success in this important branch of Bahá’í activity,
and hopes you will stimulate in the friends an interest in the fact that
they are now themselves making Bahá’í history in the South. A very great
opportunity lies before them.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved continually bless your highly meritorious efforts,
guide every step you take and enable you to contribute to the
consolidation of the institutions of His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 September 1951 \[Raquel Francois de Constante, Nicaragua\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 13 has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear, through your letter and that of Mr. Lamb,
that the United Nations Regional Conference has been such a success from
our standpoint. These conferences form a dignified means of the Bahá’ís
taking some part in world affairs and at the same time keeping aloof
from politics.

He was also very glad to hear of your activities in different Bahá’í
centres; the believers are sincere and devoted, but they need to be
encouraged to work actively in the administration of the work of the
Faith and according to its laws.

He wishes you every success in this work and will pray for your strength
and guidance.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved guide, bless and sustain you, remove every obstacle
from your path, and enable you to win great victories in the service of
His Faith in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

19 September 1951 \[Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 18th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
thanks the believers of São Paulo for their loving contribution to the
Shrine work. I am enclosing his receipt herewith.

 

He watches with keen appreciation the work of your devoted Assembly, and
feels that the progress of the Faith in Brazil, with so many eager
hearts now serving the Cause there, is assured and their future bright.

 

He sends you and the Assembly members, and the community you serve, his
loving greetings.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless, guide and reward you and your dear
fellow-members, and aid you to enrich the record of your splendid
services to His Faith,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

21 September 1951 \[Ecuador\]

Comité Nacional de Enseñanza

> Bahá’í para los Indígenas

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of July 27 has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was very pleased to hear of initial steps you have taken to teach the
Indians.

 

He adds one suggestion (he does not know if it is practicable or not):
can contact not be made with Indians who have become more or less
absorbed into the life of the white element of the country and live in
or visit the big cities? These people, finding the Bahá’ís *sincerely*
lacking in either prejudice or that even worse attitude, condescension,
might not only take interest in our Teachings, but also help us to reach
their people in the proper way.

 

It is a great mistake to believe that because people are illiterate or
live primitive lives, they are lacking in either intelligence or
sensibility. On the contrary, they may well look on us, with the evils
of our civilization, with its moral corruption, its ruinous wars, its
hypocrisy and conceit, as people who merit watching with both suspicion
and contempt. We should meet them as equals, well-wishers, people who
admire and respect their ancient descent, and who feel that they will be
interested, as we are, in a *living* *religion* and not in the dead
forms of present-day churches.

 

He wishes you every success in the important work you have undertaken,
and assures you of his loving prayers.

 

> With warmest greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless continually your highly meritorious efforts,
guide every step you take, and fulfil every hope you cherish, for the
promotion of the institutions of His Faith, and the awakening of the
indigenous element of the population to the Call of Bahá’u’lláh in this
day,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 October 1951 \[Margot Worley, Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of July 5 has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He hopes you and your family have had an inspiring visit in the States,
and will take back to South America a new impetus for the work there.

 

The Latin friends have much to learn, but then all the friends
everywhere can make greater progress and achieve greater stature in the
Faith! Growth is constant and constantly needed.

 

He assures you he will pray for you and your family, and for dear Eve
Nicklin as well.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless continually your high and meritorious endeavours,
guide and sustain you in your historic activities, and enable you to
enrich the record of your splendid services to His Faith,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

31 October 1951 \[Eve Nicklin, Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 25 was received by the beloved Guardian, and the news
you gave him made him very happy, but as he was deluged with letters
this summer he delayed answering.

The work in Central and South America has gotten off to a very good
start, and certainly shows that forces far above mere human strength
assist the work of this glorious Cause.

He was delighted to hear the work in Peru is going ahead and that the
Callao Assembly is so firm and fine.

You are certainly seeing the harvest begin to come in, many seeds of
which you yourself sowed with such devoted care and sacrifice! Truly you
and the other pioneers have been richly rewarded and blessed.

He sends you his love, and prays for your strength and health to be
sustained in carrying on your wonderful work.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. He thanks you for the photo and will be pleased to have others of
the Assembly, Convention, etc.

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you always, reward you
abundantly for your notable and unforgettable services, and enable you
to win great victories in the service of His Faith and its infant
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 November 1951 \[Yvonne de Cuéllar, Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of October 6 has been received….

He was very pleased with the good news you conveyed of the progress of
the work and the printing of “Some Answered Questions”.

He fully approves of your going to Cochabamba to do some teaching, and
will pray that you may be able to start an active group there. It is
often sufficient to find one enkindled soul who will undertake to keep a
study class going, and he hopes you will find the right person.

He also hopes that you and your dear husband will remain longer in
Bolivia until someone is found who will carry on the work with the same
determination and faith which you both have!

Your joint services are deeply appreciated by the Guardian, you may be
sure.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep and abiding appreciation …, and of my loving
and fervent prayers for the success of your high endeavours, and the
realization of every desire you cherish for the promotion of our beloved
Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 November 1951

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

of Callao, Peru

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 12, which Miss Eve Nicklin kindly forwarded, was
received by the beloved Guardian, and he thanks the Bahá’ís of Callao
for their loving contribution to the Shrine of the Báb. I am enclosing
his receipt herewith.

He was also very pleased to see the photographs you sent, and it makes
him very happy to see there is now such a devoted and active Bahá’í
community in Callao!

You may be sure he will pray for your success and that new souls may be
confirmed there in the service of Bahá’u’lláh.

> The believers of Latin America are very dear to his heart.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my
loving and fervent prayers for the success of your meritorious
endeavours for the promotion of our beloved Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 November 1951 \[Honduras\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of October 12 has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates your devotion to the Cause of God and your
dedication to its service.

Regarding your going to Africa: he feels that at present your work in
Latin America is much more important; there are too few teachers there
to afford to send one of them away at a time when so much work must be
accomplished, and the new National Spiritual Assemblies have just been
established. He hopes, however, that in the future you can pioneer
abroad.

Please give his loving greetings to Mrs. Steward, and tell her she, too,
is needed in Latin America at this time.

He will pray for your health and for the success of your services to the
Cause of God.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your notable and meritorious
services, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to consolidate,
and extend the range of, your splendid achievements,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 December 1951 \[Bolivia\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of October 24th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

…

 

The Guardian was very happy to hear that, since your return to Sucre,
the Cause has been making steady progress; and that, above all, love and
harmony prevails amongst the friends. This is really the foundation of
all progress, and without it, new souls cannot be successfully attracted
and the Community cannot grow.

 

Your devoted services are very deeply appreciated; and he assures you
that his loving prayers are offered for you for your work, and for all
the dear believers there.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my deep appreciation … and of my loving prayers on your
behalf,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

29 December 1951 \[Ecuador\]

Comité Nacional de Enseñanza Bahá’í

> para los Indigenas

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of November 3rd, with translation made by Mr. Kramer, also
his letter dated November 5th, have been received; and the beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer your Committee on his behalf.

 

The question that you have raised, regarding sending a Bahá’í teacher to
take advantage of the Government offer in providing a school building in
the village of Oyacoto for a Bahá’í resident teacher, is a matter which
should be referred to the American National Spiritual Assembly for
decision, as it is quite within their competence to advise you on this
subject.

 

The Guardian feels that it is a pity that, through the over-enthusiasm
of the official concerned, a school building was placed at the disposal
of the Bahá’ís before any official decision had been made as to whether
it was possible for them to send a teacher there.

 

We must be very careful in our dealings with the public, particularly
officials, lest we create situations which cause us embarrassment, and
may belittle our prestige in non-Bahá’í eyes.

 

The Guardian attaches the greatest importance to your work; and is
delighted to see that you are carrying on your various projects with so
much enthusiasm and devotion.

 

It would be ideal if an offer, such as that made, could be accepted; but
as the Cause has so many burdens to bear at this time, we are forced to
do as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said — give up the important for the most important.

 

He is anxious that literature should be provided, no matter how simple
in nature, in the Indian languages; and that these souls should become
gradually attracted to the Faith; but this teaching work must be
undertaken with the means you have at your disposal.

 

He assures you that he will pray that your labours may be richly blessed
and yield a harvest of precious souls belonging to the Indian races.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious endeavours, and enable you to
promote, in collaboration with your fellow-workers, the vital interests
of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

11 January 1952 \[Peru\]

Miss Eve Nicklin

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Owing to pressure of work, the beloved Guardian did not answer your
letter of October 12th sooner. However, he did write in reply to the one
you enclosed.

He is very happy to hear of the progress being made in Callao; and you
know that your constant and devoted services are most deeply
appreciated.

He feels sure you will always be guided as to the next work that is most
important for you to take up; and that, in full consultation with the
National Assembly, the way will open for you to be wherever you are most
needed.

Please assure dear … of his loving prayers. He will pray for you, too,
and for all the wonderful work you are doing.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to
enrich the record of your truly meritorious services,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

13 January 1952 \[Nicaragua\]

Mr. Artemus Lamb

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

As the Guardian has been very busy, he has not answered your letter of
August 10, 1951, earlier. However, you know that your devoted labours
for the Faith are always deeply appreciated, and that he remembers you
in his visits to the holy Shrines, and prays for your success, your
protection and guidance.

The National Assembly there has a great deal to accomplish within the
coming year and a half; and he hopes that all the members will devote
their attention to achieving their goals as speedily, and in as
practical and efficient a manner, as possible.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless continually your meritorious labours, guide and
sustain you, fulfil your cherished desire in the service of His Faith,
and aid you to enrich the notable record of your achievements,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

13 January 1952

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters of April 25th and October 13th, 1951, together with their
enclosures, have been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed
me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very sorry to hear of all the difficulties you have passed
through and hopes that now the disturbing element has left the community
they will quiet down and the friends will now concentrate on
establishing a firm Spiritual Assembly there.

He feels that you should work in close cooperation with the Central
American National Spiritual Assembly and trusts that with patience and
perseverance, the excellent foundation established there will prove the
basis for a sound Bahá’í community to be raised upon it.

You may be sure that he will pray for the removal of your difficulties
and for the protection of the believers in.…

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious endeavours, guide and sustain
you always, and enable you to enrich the record of your deeply
appreciated services to His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

2 February 1952 \[LSA Punta Arenas, Chile\]

Beloved Friends:

Our dearly beloved Guardian has requested me to acknowledge on his
behalf your two bulletins; No. 7 and 8.

He always welcomes deeply hearing of the activities of the friends and
wishes me to point out to you that you must make every effort in order
to retain your Assembly status. No city can afford to lose its
Assembly — a pillar of the glorious Bahá’í structure —  and your city at the
farthest most point of South America must guard jealously your honour in
being one of these pillars. All the pillars are needed to complete this
great pattern outlined for us by our Guardian and divinely given to us
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

> Our beloved is well and very busy and assures you of his loving
> prayers.
>
> Faithfully,
>
> Amelia Collins

P.S. I do not have at hand the name of your secretary, so am sending to
Mrs. Groger.

12 February 1952 \[Chile\]

Mr. Carlos B. Petersen

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of the 14th of January has been received; and the beloved
Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear of the success of the devoted services you and
your dear wife and family have been rendering the Faith in Quilpué; and
he was particularly gratified to learn that in April of this year you
will have a firmly established Assembly there.

The Guardian was also very pleased to hear that a Spiritual Assembly may
soon be formed in Osorno; and he wishes you to assure Mr. Bañados of his
appreciation of his devoted labours there.

The Faith in Chile has seemed, from the very beginning, to progress in a
most fortuitous manner; and he hopes that that great South American
country will be richly blessed in Bahá’í centres during the coming
years. The believers there are certainly very active and very devoted;
and, with the help of God, great things can be accomplished.

He hopes you will continue to sustain the teaching work in Quilpué; and
that, at a later date, when a firmly-grounded and sufficiently large
Bahá’í community exists there, you will be able to render pioneer
services in some other city, and establish yet another Spiritual
Assembly.

Assuring you and your family of his loving prayers in the holy Shrines
for the success of your devoted labours,

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, reward you for your
labours, and aid you to win great victories in the service of His
Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

24 February 1952 \[Peru\]

Mrs. Gayle Woolson

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of February 2nd has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He appreciates very deeply your eagerness to serve in a new pioneer
field beginning in 1953; and suggests that you make this offer, either
at the time of the Wilmette Intercontinental Conference, or perhaps an
even more meritorious gesture would be to make it at the time of the New
Delhi Conference. Undoubtedly the territories to be opened to the Faith
in the area which the New Delhi Conference will consider are the
greatest in number; and any service rendered there would be immensely
welcome.

Your constant, loyal and devoted labours are more deeply appreciated
than you can imagine; and he assures you of his most loving prayers on
your behalf.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide and sustain you always, and
aid you to enrich the record of your notable achievements,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 April 1952 \[Guatemala\]

Mr. Julio C. Hernández

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of April 3rd has been received, and the beloved Guardian was
delighted to hear that you are teaching the Faith amongst the original
inhabitants of Guatemala, as he attaches the greatest importance to this
work of the conversion of the Indians.

 

He hopes that, just as in an earlier period, the Arabian tribes, when
brought under the holy and transforming power of the teachings of
Muḥammad, attained to a high degree of civilization and knowledge, the
members of these various Indian races will attain great heights,
materially and spiritually, through the power of Bahá’u’lláh today.

 

He will pray that this noble undertaking of yours will be crowned with
great success.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide your steps, and
enable you to win great and memorable victories,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 April 1952 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of April 4th, with enclosure, has been received, and the
beloved Guardian was most happy to learn of the broadcasts on the Faith
which are taking place in that area. He considers this a great step
forward, and deeply appreciates the untiring labours of the Punta Arenas
Assembly.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to promote,
at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 May 1952

 

Bahá’í Delegates and Visitors

> Who Attended the Second Annual
>
> Bahá’í Convention of Central America

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of April 27th has been received by our beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He deeply appreciated the messages you sent him, and was most happy to
see the enthusiasm and determination which animated you all on that
historic occasion. He feels sure that the repercussions of this second
Central American Bahá’í Convention will go out into all the countries in
that area, and stimulate the friends to greater efforts for the Faith,
and unite them in greater love and unity.

 

The believers must realize that each and every one of them is needed for
the service of Bahá’u’lláh, and that, however humble their offering may
be at His Threshold, it is nevertheless acceptable, and will contribute
to the world-wide and speedy establishment of our glorious Faith. Until
the present goals are accomplished, future tasks cannot be undertaken;
and you should all inspire your fellow-believers to arise and redouble
their efforts at this time, when such a wonderful prospect is unfolding
before us.

 

> He assures you all of his prayers for your success, in the Holy
> Shrines.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve with such a splendid devotion,
reward you for your meritorious labours, guide every step you take,
bless every effort you exert, and fulfil every desire you cherish, for
the promotion of His Faith and the consolidation of its nascent
institutions,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

25 May 1952 \[Costa Rica\]

Mrs. Louise Caswell

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 5th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He feels that for the time being you should continue your services in
Latin America, and that after visiting the Convention, at the time of
the Intercontinental Conference in 1953, and seeing what teaching plans
are formulated for the coming decade, you could better judge where your
services would be most needed.

He himself would be very happy to see you pioneer in a new field during
the future Plan.

…

He hopes that great progress will be made during this crucial year in
the work in Latin America, and will pray that your labours will be
richly blessed.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you serve with such exemplary devotion,
reward you for your meritorious endeavours, and enable you to extend the
range of your activities, and win great victories in the service of His
Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

25 May 1952

To the Delegates and Friends who were

> present at the Second South American
>
> Convention, held in Buenos Aires, Argentina,
>
> on May 5th

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving messages dated May 5th were received by the beloved
Guardian, and he thanks you for them, and assures you that it brought
him great happiness to see with what devotion and dedication you are
serving the Faith in those regions.

He feels sure that, if you carry this spirit of love and unity and
enthusiasm back to your individual centres and groups, the work will
receive a great impetus, and the goals set before you will be achieved,
in preparation for the tremendous plans to be made during the Holy Year
which will shortly come upon us.

He will remember you all in the Shrines, and ardently pray for your
success.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bestow His manifold blessings upon your historic
labours, aid you to extend continually the range of your splendid
activities, and achieve unforgettable victories in the service of the
God-given institutions of His Faith,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 June 1952

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letters of . . . have been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf. . . .

All Bahá’ís in Latin America are eligible to the National Spiritual
Assembly, whether they are pioneers from North America or not.
Gradually, as the Cause spreads, no doubt there will be fewer North
Americans on the Assemblies, but the basis of election must remain the
same in every country. Any voter is eligible for election, and all
Bahá’ís residing in any specified electoral area are free to vote for
whomever they feel they should.

…

> The Bahá’í cycle dates from the Declaration of the Báb.

It is not right under any circumstances for any Bahá’í living either in
the days of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, the Master or the Guardian to consider
that disobedience to the Centre of the Faith and His wishes is justified
under any circumstances whatsoever.

Bahá’u’lláh suffered terribly from the acts of some of the Bahá’ís who,
because of the philosophy you mention, went and martyred some of the
Azalís. Such disobedience, although the motive may have been a pure one,
brought infinite hardship on the Centre of the Faith.

The moment we believe that our faulty human judgement can tell us when
to disobey the Centre of the Covenant for His own good, we are indeed
straying far from the true path.

God does not want any human being to sacrifice his soul  —  to give our
lives in the path of God, if required of us, is quite sufficient.

You may be sure you are remembered most lovingly by the Guardian in his
prayers in the Holy Shrines, and he is glad to hear your health is
better, as without good health it is indeed difficult to render the
degree of service the heart aspires to.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. Your letter of May 26th with photographs enclosed has just been
received. The Guardian does not feel, whatever the workings of the case
may have been, that a believer should be deprived of his voting rights
because of an act of immorality with which he is charged, least of all
if this event happened a long time ago. When believers are flagrantly
immoral in their conduct, they should be warned by their Assembly
confidentially, and given a chance to show that they are making an
effort to change their ways, but such peremptory action as seems to have
been taken in this case, he feels, is neither wise nor justifiable. …
should request to be reinstated in his voting rights to the National
Assembly, and if they refuse, he should ask that the matter be referred
to the American National Spiritual Assembly, or if necessary, to the
Guardian himself….

*May the Almighty bless continually your high endeavours, guide and
sustain you, reward you for your meritorious labours, and fulfil your
heart’s desire in the service of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 June 1952 \[Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of April 29th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has answered the message sent him by the delegates and visitors from
the Second Annual Convention of Central America, and he was most happy
to hear that the Convention was such a success and was so harmonious.

He hopes that all the friends in that area will work with renewed energy
and consecration during the coming critical months. Your services are
deeply appreciated.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to enrich
the record of your splendid services to His Faith and its nascent
institutions,*

> *Your true and grateful brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 June 1952 \[Uruguay\]

Miss Eve Nicklin and

Mrs. Margot Miessler

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 22nd has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is pleased to see that you are going to serve the Faith in
Montevideo, as he considers it an important centre of South America, and
he assures you that he will pray for the success of your labours during
the coming year.

> Please give his loving greetings to all the believers there.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 June 1952 \[Brazil\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Rio de Janeiro

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of May 20th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is most happy to see the spirit of dedication that is animating you,
as you enter upon a new year of Bahá’í administrative work, and he feels
sure that, through your love, unity and determination, you will be able
to spread the Cause more rapidly in Rio.

 

He will remember you in his prayers in the Holy Shrines, and sends you
his loving greetings.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

5 July 1952 \[LSA Punta Arenas, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian thanks you for your loving expression of sympathy
conveyed in your letter of June 3rd.

It was, indeed, a great loss to have Mr. Maxwell pass on so far from his
family, but he was greatly blessed by Bahá’u’lláh, and is no doubt
happier now, in that other world, where he is freed from bodily illness
and the cares of this life.

He hopes your community will grow during the coming months and assures
you of his prayers for your success.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to promote
the best interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 July 1952 \[Argentina\]

The Bahá’ís of Buenos Aires

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Our beloved Guardian has received your letter of May 11th a short time
ago, and he deeply appreciates the sentiments you expressed in it.

 

He has always taken a particular interest in the progress of the Cause
of God in that city, as it was one of the first centres to be developed
under the Second Seven Year Plan. He feels that, inevitably, it must
play an important role in the unfoldment of the Faith in Latin America.

 

Perhaps the single most necessary thing for the progress of the work of
the Faith is unity and love amongst the friends; without these the group
lacks the spiritual vitality to teach and confirm new souls. He hopes
that the believers in that great city will labour as one soul in many
bodies for the rapid spread of our beloved Faith. Great achievements lie
before you, and his loving prayers will surround you, you may be sure.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty guide and sustain you, and aid you to promote, at all
times, the vital interests of His Faith, and consolidate your splendid
achievements for the furtherance of its nascent institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

19 August 1952 \[Bahá’ís of Punta Arenas, Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of June 3rd, with translation enclosed, reached the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He deeply appreciated the sentiments you expressed in your letter and
your loyalty to the Covenant of the beloved Master. Although the blind
and foolish enemies of the Faith cause harm to it, they can neither
hinder its progress nor prevent it from presenting a completely united
front to the world. Our unity is a unity which cannot be destroyed.

> He sends you all his loving greetings,
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, bless richly and
continually your highly meritorious services in that far-off region, and
aid you to win great and memorable victories,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

8 March 1953 \[Uruguay\]

Miss Eve Nicklin

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 17th with enclosures has been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf,
and to thank you for the enclosures.

Your labours have been of such great service to the Faith in Latin
America, that he hopes you will continue, at least for part of the
coming Ten Year Crusade, to work in that area.

Now that the objective is independent national bodies for each country,
a tremendous amount of work will have to be done, and believers with a
knowledge of the language, and experience of the customs of the people
and their mentality such as you have acquired, will be of great value.

He assures you he will remember you in his prayers in the holy Shrines,
and supplicate that God may richly bless your labours for His Faith.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 March 1953 \[Venezuela\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 23rd has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is indeed happy to learn that the believers in Caracas have now found
it possible to have their first Centre. He believes that having this
Centre, where all the activities of the Cause may be carried on
unitedly, will act as a magnet to draw to the friends a greater
spiritual force, and will enable them to do more effective teaching
work.

He hopes that the Bahá’ís will one and all rally around this Centre, and
will redouble their efforts, so that their numbers may increase, and a
strong and thriving community may be realized in Caracas.

The Guardian will remember you all in his loving prayers at the holy
Shrines.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 April 1953 \[Panama\]

Miss Mabel Sneider

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of March 11th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to learn that you were able to visit Zanzibar, and was
glad to know that the Cause is progressing so well in Nairobi. The
Guardian appreciates very much your making the effort to visit so many
of the centres while in Africa.

The Guardian assures you he will pray for your success in your services
for the Faith in Panama, to which the Master attached such great
importance, and where now the friends will begin to think of buying the
land prior to the erection of their Temple.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 May 1953 \[Brazil\]

Mrs. Margot Worley

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your loving letter of April 27th, and
has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

 

He greatly appreciates the remarkable spirit which animates you in your
tremendous activity in the Faith.

 

Shoghi Effendi is very happy indeed to learn of the new spirit which has
seized the Bahá’ís of South America. South America is now a very vital
part of the great Ten Year Crusade, and has great responsibilities. The
Guardian is sure that the believers of South America will arise, as
never before, in order to achieve the goals set for them. You may be
sure he is praying for them continually at the Shrines.

 

The Guardian will follow with the greatest interest the teaching
activities of the friends, as they open up new territories, and as they
consolidate the work throughout the continent. He likewise will follow
closely the teaching work of the believers, as they enter into the
virgin fields assigned to them under the Ten Year Crusade.

 

The Guardian sends his loving greetings to you, your husband and the
children.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> Leroy Ioas

 

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to
win great victories in the service of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

26 May 1953 \[Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Friend:

Your loving letter of May 7th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

He was deeply moved by your recital of the difficult path you had to
tread in becoming a Bahá’í. It is like the path which the disciples of
Christ had to follow. Through their sacrifices, they became severed from
the things of the world, and achieved great spiritual insight, so that
they forsook everything in order to serve at the feet of their Beloved.
Now you are following in their footsteps. The Beloved of the hearts has
opened your eyes and given you divine insight. You must be entirely
freed from attachment to the things of the world and from concern over
the persecutions which are heaped upon you by members of your family
etc. In fact, these persecutions should be the means of deepening your
faith.

The Guardian values very highly your love and devotion to the Cause of
God. He will pray for your spiritual development, and that divine
confirmations may reach you at all times. He sincerely hopes you may be
able to bring many others to the bourn of immortality.

> He sends his loving greetings to you.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> Leroy Ioas

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 June 1953

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of July 5, 1952, your postscript to that letter in the form
of another letter, and one dated March 8, 1953 with pamphlet enclosed
have all been received, and as the Guardian is extremely busy and worn
out from the great deal of extra work he is doing in connection with the
Conferences and the Ten Year Plan, I will make this answer very brief.

 

He urges you to entirely forget all these small misunderstandings, to
which he himself attaches no importance whatsoever, and to concentrate
on consolidating the Faith in …, and doing all you can in the teaching
field.

 

Now is the time for action and for confidence, and not for
soul-searching and unnecessary suffering.

 

The Guardian assures you that he will particularly pray for the Youth
Group consisting of young people near college age whom you have been
teaching in …, and he hopes some of these young people will decide to
enter the path of service to Bahá’u’lláh.

 

He assures you of his loving prayers, and he feels sure that the work in
Central and South America is now going to go forward with a greater
spiritual impetus than ever before.

 

> With Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the best interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

15 August 1953 \[Chile\]

The Bahá’í Community of Santiago

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your loving letter of June 28th has been received by the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was indeed happy to learn of the visit to your city made by the
devoted Hand of the Cause of God, Valíyu’lláh Varqá, and of the healing,
unifying and quickening spirit brought to you by this noble
representative from himself.

 

He hopes that now, faced with the Plan he has given the Bahá’ís for the
period of the World Crusade, and conscious of the heavy responsibilities
placed upon the shoulders of the believers in the South American
countries, you will unitedly arise to worthily play your part in this
great Crusade.

 

To the friends in the South American countries has been given the task,
and the bounty, of opening up to the Faith, nine virgin territories,
where it is not now known. This is the most important goal for the
opening phase of the World Crusade, and the sooner at least one pioneer
is settled in each of these virgin areas, the better it will be. Perhaps
from Chile will go forth one of these pioneers!

 

The responsibilities placed upon the friends in your land are indeed
great, but the Guardian does not give to any Community, or any
individual, tasks greater than their strength to accomplish. Therefore,
he urges you to bend all your energy toward the successful conclusion of
all the tasks given you. He knows from the moment you determine to do
this, you will experience the utmost happiness and you will obtain a new
power for your work.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

26 September 1953 \[Guatemala\]

Mrs. Louise Caswell

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 13th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian very greatly appreciates your constant devoted labours for
the Faith, and he trusts they will all be productive of much fruit.

The honoured Hand of the Cause of God, ͯDh̲ikru’lláh ͯKh̲ádem, is very dear
to the heart of the beloved Guardian; and from every city or town he
visited messages of deep gratitude are received from the believers for
the spiritual joy and the greater sense of nearness to the Guardian
which he imparts.

The Guardian would advise that you stay in Guatemala and continue your
work with the Indians — for the time being, at least. As you know, he
attaches great importance indeed to this phase of the Ten Year Crusade.
He will pray that divine confirmations may be yours in connection with
this important service.

Shoghi Effendi was delighted to hear of the preparation of the pamphlet
in the Spanish and Maya Quiché languages, and feels sure this will prove
of great assistance to the teaching work there. He hopes it may be
published promptly.

> The Guardian sends his loving greetings to you.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

27 September 1953 \[Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of August 14th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The Guardian has already replied to your letter by cable. However, he
wishes me to say that he favours your pioneering. However, if you
consider that your going to… as a pioneer will destroy your relationship
with your father, then he would suggest that perhaps your wife could go
now, and then you can see how things work out for your joining her
later.

 

Shoghi Effendi feels this is a matter on which you two must consult, and
concerning which you must reach a decision for yourselves.

 

The Guardian deeply appreciates the devotion to the Faith of your dear
wife and yourself, and sends you his loving greetings.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

29 September 1953 \[Peru\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of August 25th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian would suggest that you consult with the other members of
the National Spiritual Assembly, so that you will as a body be able to
reach a conclusion as to whether you can best serve the interests of the
Faith by going forth as a pioneer, or by labouring for the consolidation
of the Faith, as well as its expansion, where you are now located.

Your devoted services are very deeply appreciated by the Guardian, and
he sends his loving greetings to you.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote
the best interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

1 October 1953 \[Chile\]

The Bahá’ís of Punta Arenas

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The card of loving greeting, dated September 27, 1952, which you sent to
the beloved Guardian, was received by him some time ago; but pressure of
work has prevented him from acknowledging it sooner. Now he has asked me
to send you this note on his behalf.

The Guardian is hoping that Chile will be represented at the forthcoming
New Delhi Conference, as that will be a historic and unique occasion.

In any event, the believers in your city are now aware of the goals of
the Ten Year Crusade; and the Guardian is hoping they will arise with
one accord to assist in carrying forward to a successful conclusion
those tasks placed upon the shoulders of the devoted believers of South
America for this ten-year period.

The Guardian sends his loving greetings to all the dear Bahá’ís there,
and assures you of his prayers in your behalf.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

20 October 1953

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of October 3rd has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

Regarding the questions you have raised: As there is nothing specific in
the Bahá’í Writings on the subject of abortion, it will consequently
have to be dealt with by the International House of Justice, when that
Body is formed.

 

The Guardian feels that your attitude towards the corrupt practice of
accepting commissions from fellow physicians and pharmacists is most
admirable. The more upright and noble the Bahá’ís are in their conduct,
the more they will impress the public with the spiritual vitality of the
Faith they believe in.

 

The Guardian does not feel that he can advise you about whether you
should or should not take out citizenship in…. This is a matter you
should consult the Assembly about. However, he sees no objection
whatsoever to your doing so.

 

He deeply appreciates and admires your great love for the Faith, and
your devotion to it, and determination to serve it; and he assures you
he will ardently pray that you may be guided in your efforts to promote
it, and that you may be confirmed in your teaching work.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

19 November 1953 \[Brazil\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of October 28th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The Guardian, although he feels that the establishment of new centres is
of the utmost importance during the Ten Year Crusade, would not advise
you to undertake any activities contrary to your husband’s wishes. If he
has no objection to your teaching in some remote post, then this would
certainly be a highly meritorious service; otherwise, you should
continue with your important activities in connection with the teaching
and publishing committees.

 

> You may be sure his loving prayers surround you.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your high and constant endeavours, guide and
sustain you always, and enable you to promote the vital interests of His
Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

4 December 1953 \[Brazil\]

To the believers who were gathered at the

> Teaching Conference in São Paulo on
>
> October 31st

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

The beloved Guardian has received the letter which was signed by all
those attending, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was most happy to learn that such a spirit of harmony, and such zeal
were apparent on that occasion. It is this entire dedication of the
friends which will be the cause of the creation of other groups and
later Local Assemblies throughout that vast country, so that Brazil may
eventually have its own National Assembly, in accordance with the goals
set by the Guardian for the Ten Year Crusade.

 

The Guardian will pray for the complete success of your labours in the
Faith, rest assured.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your noble endeavours, guide and sustain you
always, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win great
victories in the service of His Faith and of its institutions,*

 

> *Your true and grateful brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

10 January 1954 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of December 7th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He greatly appreciates the devotion which animates you in the service of
the Faith.

…

The Guardian feels that, although it would be a wonderful thing for you
and also for the Cause if you could go out into a virgin area, … is far
too important a centre to be placed in jeopardy. Perhaps if more
resident Bahá’ís can be found there, you will be freed later on of the
responsibility you now have in helping to maintain Assembly status
there.

The Guardian advises you to keep in close touch with the National
Assembly; and assures you that he will pray that the way may open for
you to fulfil your heart’s desire in the service of Bahá’u’lláh.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

1 February 1954 \[Chile\]

Dr. Alexander Reid, Secretary

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Punta Arenas

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of January 12th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The passing of the honoured and much-loved Hand of the Cause of God,
Dorothy Baker, is indeed a great loss to the Faith, and she will be
sadly missed in many lands, where she had laboured so tirelessly and so
devotedly. She was an example and a great pillar of strength for the
friends wherever she travelled.

 

We can feel sure that her pure spirit will be assisting the believers
from the unseen worlds of God, and that now her reward is great.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless you and your dear fellow-members and sustain you
in your incessant and meritorious activities in the service of our
beloved Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

18 February 1954 \[Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your two letters of January 28th have been received by the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He appreciates very much your services to the Faith, and feels there is
no objection to your offering a piece of land as a summer school in
memory of your dear parents. He suggests you consult regarding this
matter with the National Assembly.

The Guardian is very happy indeed to hear that some of your children are
now active believers, and will pray for them all. He will particularly
pray for the soul of your dear mother, who is no doubt much happier and
freer than when she was confined to this world.

He wishes me to thank you for the pictures and the newspaper article
which you enclosed.

> He sends his loving greetings to all the believers in Havana.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 March 1954 \[Paraguay\]

Miss Eve Nicklin

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of February 15th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian was indeed happy to see the booklet gotten out by the
Bahá’í National Committee for Indian Work in South America, printed in
the Guarani language. This is a most meritorious service, and of great
importance in the teaching of these people. He is hopeful that this
booklet will become the means of introducing the Faith to many receptive
souls among the Indians.

The Guardian deeply appreciates the services of your committee, and
sends you his loving greetings.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 March 1954 \[Haiti\]

The Bahá’í Community of

> Port-au-Prince

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

This is just a brief note to acknowledge, on behalf of the beloved
Guardian, your letter of February 13th.

While the sudden passing of the beloved Hand of the Cause, Dorothy
Baker, is a great loss to the Faith, yet we know her reward is great,
and surely her pure spirit will be assisting the friends in their
teaching activities.

> The Guardian sends his loving greetings to you all.
>
> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for the success of your highly
meritorious efforts for the promotion of the Faith and the consolidation
of its nascent institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

27 March 1954

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

It took some time to have your letter of February 8th translated from
Spanish into English, as we are not very proficient in the former here;
and, seeing that you had an important question to ask, wanted to be sure
we understood it.

 

The beloved Guardian says that the question of circumcision has nothing
to do with the Bahá’í Teachings; and the believers are free to do as
they please in the matter.

 

He will pray for the success of your services to the Faith and for your
children, and that your family may become attracted to the Teachings.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

27 March 1954 \[Costa Rica\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of February 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was sorry to hear of the trials you are both passing through; and
assures you that he will pray that Mr. … may find work, and you may be
enabled to remain in that area.

Most of us pass through very difficult periods in our lives; indeed even
the Prophets of God did; and we must be patient and persevere until we
come through them and out on the other side.

He urges you not to be discouraged over conditions in the Cause, but
with love, patience and forbearance, help to educate the Bahá’ís. It is
important to maintain the foundation that has been laid, however
unworthy the building blocks may seem to be to us, so that the future
work may go forward as steadily as possible.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 April 1954 \[Peru\]

Mr. and Mrs. Mario Rodriguez

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of April 9th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was very happy indeed to learn that you have gone out to pioneer in
Huancayo, and he hopes that you will not only be able to establish your
residence there more or less permanently, but that you will also make
many contacts amongst the Indian peoples in surrounding villages, and be
able gradually to convert them to our Faith. He attaches great
importance, first, to their being informed of the Teachings, and second,
to their being confirmed and becoming active members of the Faith.

 

He hopes that other people will follow your example, not only in Peru,
but in other South American centres.

 

The indigenous population of the Americas have every right to be given
the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, and we know from the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
that, once they become converted to this Faith, they will exert a great
influence on it, and become entirely changed themselves.

 

You may be sure he will remember you and your devoted services in his
loving prayers in the holy Shrines.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

25 April 1954 \[LSA San José , Costa Rica\]

Delighted purchase Temple site congratulations great victory assure
assembled delegates loving remembrance Shrines urge redouble efforts
attainment goals World Crusade.

5 May 1954 \[Guatemala\]

Mrs. Louise Caswell

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of January 2nd with enclosure has been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted to receive the pamphlet in Maya-Quiché, and attaches
the greatest importance, as you know, not only to teaching the Indians,
but to having the Bahá’í literature, at least in pamphlet form,
translated into their native tongues.

He hopes that you and your dear co-worker, Adriana Zuniga, will meet
with ever-increasing success in this wonderful work you have undertaken.
You may be sure that he prays for your success and for the confirmations
of Bahá’u’lláh, in the holy Shrines.

The work in Latin America will certainly now go forward better than ever
before. The believers are more mature, there are more native Latin
Americans active, and they have a greater vision of what requires to be
done.

He hopes that all of them will assist in achieving the goals of the Ten
Year Plan, many of which, thank God, have so miraculously been won
during this first glorious Holy Year.

> With warmest Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide your steps, and
enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

2 June 1954 \[Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 23rd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to learn that you have gotten so well settled down,
and that you have the promise of a Spiritual Assembly in the Canal Zone
by next April.

He thinks it premature at present to make any plans for an independent
National Assembly there; but as all Regional or National Assemblies are
based on the principle of having a sufficient number of Local
Assemblies, the Bahá’ís should redouble their efforts to bring into
existence new Assemblies and new groups; and, when the time is ripe for
the establishment of a National Assembly, he will tell you to do so.

> He assures you of his prayers in your behalf.
>
> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

6 June 1954

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of May 22nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The Guardian, in view of the fact that your husband does not really wish
to be separated from you, but on the contrary is desirous of keeping
your marriage together, feels that you, as a Bahá’í, have no right to
destroy it because of your desire to serve the Faith.

 

Marriage is a very sacred institution. Bahá’u’lláh said its purpose is
to promote unity. If the friends neglect, for the sake of the Cause,
this institution, they place the Faith in a poor light before the
public. In these days the people of the world are so immoral, and treat
the marriage institution so lightly; and we, as Bahá’ís, in contrast to
the people of the world, are trying to create a high moral standard, and
reinstate the sanctity of marriage.

 

If your husband will allow you to do a certain amount of teaching work,
and occasionally to travel in the interests of the Faith, all the
better; but he does not think the Faith should be made the thing which
destroys your family life.

 

He feels sure that, if you will talk this over with …, and share this
letter with him, you will find him understanding and co-operative. He
has proved himself in the past to be so on more than one occasion.

 

> He assures you of his prayers for you both.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

13 September 1954 \[Belize\]

 

Mrs. Cora H. Oliver

> and

Mrs. Shirley Warde

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of August 12th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He does not consider it advisable to move from Belize to one of the
villages, as you have apparently won the friendship of some of the
native people, and are beginning to see the results of your labours. If
you should now go to another area, most of this work would be lost.

 

Therefore, the Guardian would advise that you remain in Belize, as this
is the principal city, and continue your efforts until the Faith is
firmly established there; and then consider going to another village.

 

He will ardently pray that the path may open before you, so that you may
together be enabled to pursue your devoted labours in that important
post. He deeply appreciates your devotion to the Faith, and your
eagerness to serve it in the most meritorious way.

 

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

P.S. The Guardian also thanks you for the enclosure which came with your
letter.

 

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve so devotedly and well, guide
and sustain you always, aid you to extend the range of your activities,
and enable you to win great and memorable victories in the days to
come,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

4 October 1954 \[Mexico\]

Miss Elisabeth H. Cheney

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of August 31st has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was delighted to learn that you have arrived at your new post in
Mexico, and that you are again serving in Latin America in the
pioneering field. He was very happy to know that you have a position,
which assures your remaining there.

 

It is good to know that your teaching work has already begun, and that
some of the inquirers have started to study.

 

On one occasion, the Guardian said that he could not recreate, but that
if given the tools, he could use them. Now he is happy to have a very
devoted tool in Monterrey. He urges you to continue your devoted
labours, and never to become discouraged; but patiently, though
persistently, endeavour to gradually attract and teach those who are
awakened souls, so that your efforts may soon be reinforced by others
who will determine to join the ranks of the servants of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

The Guardian assures you of his loving prayers, that the many
difficulties which now face you may completely disappear, and that you
may be assisted and strengthened to serve the Cause so dear to your
heart.

 

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,

 

R. Rabbani

 

P.S. Your previous letter dated July 30 was also received and read with
interest.

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to enrich
continually the record of your splendid services to His Faith and its
institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

*Shoghi*

5 November 1954 \[Costa Rica\]

Mrs. Emma P. Lawrence

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of September 26th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was most happy to learn that you have now become established in Costa
Rica, and are engaged in teaching in the school.

 

He is most hopeful that, in a short time through the power of the Faith,
you may find among the native people searching souls who have the
spiritual capacity for the great Message you have to give them; so that
you may be enabled to wisely but perseveringly teach these natives, and
succeed in enlisting their services in the Cause of God.

 

> Be assured that his loving prayers will ever surround you in your
> labours.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

15 November 1954 \[Falkland Islands\]

Mr. John Leonard

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your loving letter of October 5th has been received by the beloved
Guardian, and I have been instructed to answer you on his behalf.

He was indeed delighted to learn of the success which has attended your
efforts in that far outpost of the Faith.

Certainly, the fireside meetings held in the home of ... , native people
of the Falkland Islands, should yield their fruit in encouraging this
couple and those who attend the meetings in their home to seriously
study the Cause, and in a short time to become its ardent supporters.

The Guardian was also very happy over the news that you have brought one
believer into the Faith, and that now your efforts as a Bahá’í will be
reinforced. If Mrs. McKinnon finds it possible to make the pilgrimage,
she should first request permission from the Guardian, himself, who
personally arranges the dates when the friends may come.

He hopes that, regardless of opposition, you will see the group grow
rapidly before your eyes. He assures you of his ardent prayers for the
spiritual enlightenment of …, and the other friends who have been drawn
to the Truth by you, for the protection and guidance of Mrs. McKinnon,
and for your own guidance and assistance.

He assures you of his abiding appreciation of your ardent and
sacrificial services, which he trusts will, in the not-too-distant
future, in co-operation with Mrs. McKinnon, bring a Spiritual Assembly
into being.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. The Guardian thanks you for the photograph of Mrs. McKinnon, which
was enclosed with your letter. Please extend to her on his behalf a warm
welcome into the Faith.

*May the Almighty bless abundantly your magnificent, exemplary and
historic efforts, cheer your heart, and remove all obstacles from your
path, and enable you to win great victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 December 1954 \[Bahamas\]

Mrs. Nina Matthisen, Secretary

The Bahá’í Group of Nassau

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of November 20th, with enclosures, has been received by the
beloved Guardian; and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is indeed happy to know that there is now a native believer in
Nassau. Please extend a loving welcome into the service of the Faith to
Mr. Small from the Guardian. He is hoping this young man will be
instrumental in guiding many of his fellow-countrymen to the Cause. It
seems he is well equipped to teach and serve it.

 

The Guardian thanks you for the newspaper clippings, and he hopes they
will prove to be of great assistance to you in reaching souls of
capacity in the Bahamas.

 

He appreciates the prayers of the friends on his behalf, and he assures
them he will supplicate for their guidance and assistance, on his visits
to the holy Shrines.

 

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you and your dear co-workers,
and enable you to promote the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

28 January 1955 \[Caracas, Venezuela\]

Miss Joan Lozier

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of January 7th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is happy to hear that you are serving the Faith in Venezuela, as the
work in South America needs reinforcing by North American Bahá’ís, who,
generally speaking, have more “push” than is found in the Latin
temperament.

 

He feels you are quite right to adapt your teaching methods to the
mentality of people with a different background; and feels sure this
will lead to success. Perseverance, love, tact and patience will work
wonders.

 

He feels the Caracas friends should deepen their own knowledge of the
Teachings, make every effort to attract new souls, and by all means try
and carry on extension work in the rest of Venezuela.

 

You may be sure he will pray for you and all the friends there, in the
holy Shrines; and he urges you to persevere with a happy and confident
heart.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

23 March 1955 \[Chile\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of March 6th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

As regards your question about leaving …, the Guardian hopes that you
will not feel discouraged over the situation there. Sometimes
personalities conflict, entirely aside from the purity of the teacher
and his devotion to the Faith.

As you know, the Guardian’s chief concern is that a Spiritual Assembly
should be maintained in …; and he thinks that you should decide, with
the South America National Assembly, the matter of your departure. As
far as he is concerned, if someone goes to take your place, or the
Assembly can be maintained without your presence, you are free to
proceed elsewhere and serve the Faith, as he knows you always will,
wherever you are.

…

You may be sure that he will pray for the removal of your difficulties
and for the advancement of the Faith in ….

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you
always, and enable you to win great and memorable victories in the
service of His glorious Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 April 1955 \[Brazil\]

The Bahá’í Community of Rio de Janeiro

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of March 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is happy indeed that the members of your Community have determined to
rededicate themselves to the work of the Faith, and to help speed the
time when Brazil will have its own National Assembly. This means more
Local Assemblies must come into existence. Therefore, in cities where
the believers are more numerous, they should be urged to move to other
towns, in order to establish the Cause in new centres, or to help in the
consolidation work, to the point where a Spiritual Assembly can be
established.

 

He assures you all of his loving prayers for the success of your
labours, and sends you his loving greetings.

 

> With warm Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote the vital interests of His Faith and of its nascent
institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

12 July 1955 \[Panama\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 26th with enclosure has been received by the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He greatly appreciates your action in meeting the Ambassador of the
United States to Írán and presenting to him in the name of the Community
of Panama City and the Canal Zone group the letter, copy of which you
enclosed, as well as the literature.

It is always good also to emphasize, whenever we have such an
opportunity, that the Bahá’ís constitute the *largest* minority in
Persia.

The Guardian deeply appreciates your devoted services, and sends you his
loving greetings.

> With Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve so diligently and devotedly,
reward you for your valued labours, and enable you to enrich continually
the scope of your activities,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 August 1955 \[Brazil\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of June 3rd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

A Bahá’í may marry in any way, anywhere, legally providing the marriage
does not commit him or her as a Bahá’í to a declaration of Faith in
another religion.

 

The Guardian advises you to consult the National Spiritual Assembly
concerning this matter, so that it may become perfectly clear to you,
and you may feel confident that you are acting in accordance with the
law of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you and enable you to promote,
at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

26 August 1955 \[Haiti\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of

> Port-au-Prince

care of Mr. Martial B. Coulanges,

> Corresponding Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of July 15th with enclosure has been received by the beloved
Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates the sentiments you express, as well as the truly
excellent article appearing in the paper.

Although the danger to the Persian Bahá’ís appears to be as great as
ever, and some have just recently been martyred including a woman; we
know that the end cannot but be a victory for the Faith.

He considers your idea for a publication is good, but premature. The
possibility of making it a success he thinks is remote at this time. He
advises you to concentrate on producing such excellent articles as the
one in the press which you enclosed.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious endeavours, guide every step
you take, and enable you to promote, at all times, the vital interests
of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

3 September 1955 \[Mexico\]

Miss Elisabeth H. Cheney

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of July 31st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He considers Ciudad Trujillo a very important city, and is happy to know
that you are now located there, so that you can teach the Faith and
reinforce the efforts of Sheila Rice-Wray.

He assures you of his prayers, and wishes you every success in your
efforts.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your highly meritorious endeavours, and aid you
to enrich continually the record of your historic services to His
Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

16 September 1955 \[Chile\]

To the Bahá’ís who attended the Conference

> held by the Regional Committee in Quilpué,
>
> August 13th to 15th

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated August 15th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is happy to know that you have firmly in mind the need for a wider
propagation of the Faith, and the increasing of the number of individual
Bahá’ís and localities where there are Bahá’ís, so that a firm
foundation may be laid for the future National Spiritual Assembly of
Chile.

Time passes quickly; and the need for this multiplication of isolated
centres, groups and Spiritual Assemblies cannot be too much emphasized,
as it is of the greatest importance in order to ensure victory in the
establishment of your own National Assembly during this historic World
Spiritual Crusade.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

P.S. When the Faith receives a great blow or set-back in one country,
such as has been the case in Persia, the friends in other parts of the
world where there is freedom to teach, should hold aloft still higher
the banner of this great Message, and thus prove to a waiting humanity
that there is in this Cause a power which cannot be kept down nor
defeated. The Guardian is hoping this will be the case in Chile.

*May the Beloved bless richly your high endeavours, guide you
continually in the path of service, and aid you to extend the range of
your accomplishments,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 October 1955 \[Guatemala\]

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of August 10th with
enclosure, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted with the news it conveyed. He was very happy to know
that Bahá’í literature has been translated into Nahuatl (or Mexicano);
and thanks you for the pamphlet in this language which you sent him.

The Guardian would appreciate your sending him a list of the names of
the tribes of Indians in Central America and Panama who have been
contacted.

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved shower His blessings upon your work, guide every step
you take, remove all obstacles from your path, and aid you to enrich the
record of your highly meritorious services to His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 October 1955

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of September 12th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

It is most encouraging news that you now have two British Honduras
believers in Belize. These two newly-confirmed Bahá’ís seem to be people
of capacity; and the Guardian hopes they will be firm and staunch
supporters of the Faith, and will become instrumental in promoting the
Cause among their countrymen.

 

The Guardian likewise is hoping the Mayan Indian may also, before long,
decide to enter the Cause, and whole-heartedly lend his support to the
work there.

 

He is most happy with the progress of the work in British Honduras; and
now that your group has reached a total of four, he feels sure the
spirit witnessed among you will attract others, and that the work will
show consistent progress.

The Guardian deeply values your ceaseless efforts for the expansion of
the Faith, and will pray that they may be abundantly blessed.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you serve so faithfully and well, guide
every step you take, bless every effort you exert, and aid you to enrich
the record of your splendid services to His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

28 October 1955 \[Chile\]

Miss Hortensia Orellana

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Punta Arenas

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of August 24th with
enclosure, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

It is good to see this further evidence of the vitality of the Faith in
that land. By this means the believers will be kept informed of the
activities of the friends and the progress of the Cause. The Guardian
hopes it will give to all the Bahá’ís the urge and incentive to put
forth even greater efforts for the expansion and steady growth of the
Faith, as they read the contents of their Bulletin.

 

With warm Bahá’í greetings to the members of the Spiritual Assembly and
all the friends,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless your noble endeavours, sustain you in your
constant activities, and aid you to win great and memorable victories
for His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

20 November 1955 \[Mexico\]

 Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your loving letter of November 2nd was received and presented to the
beloved Guardian.

 

It is the Guardian’s considered view that the time has come when Bahá’ís
should establish the Bahá’í way of life, independent of any of the
former attachments which individuals may have had, particularly if those
attachments contain teachings or methods of operation which are contrary
to the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

The Guardian feels therefore that membership in Masonic Lodges is not
consistent with the pure teachings of the Faith, and that the time has
now come when the believers should separate themselves from such
membership.

 

The instructions therefore contained in the message to the British
National Spiritual Assembly and the United States National Spiritual
Assembly apply universally.

 

The Guardian hopes you and the other members of the Community in … will
study this subject very carefully, realizing the unique opportunity, and
at the same time the unique responsibility which you have in building up
the Bahá’í way of life in that country, and firmly establishing one of
the most important institutions of the Faith, namely, the Local
Spiritual Assembly.

 

The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh will establish a new way of life for
humanity. Those who are Bahá’ís must endeavour to establish this way of
life just as rapidly as possible. Now that the hour has arrived when the
Bahá’í Faith is gaining prominence, and is being reviewed by so many
peoples, it is necessary that the adherents of the Faith should live up
to the high ideals of the Faith in every way. In this way they can
demonstrate that the Bahá’í Faith does create a new way of life, which
brings to the individual a complete association with the Will of God,
and thus the establishment of a peaceful and universal society.
Divisional attachments are of men, while universal service is of God.

 

The Guardian is now anxious that all the friends achieve a universal
consciousness and universal way of life.

 

The Guardian hopes that you will be able to understand this matter in
the proper light, and be helpful and instrumental in properly explaining
it to the others of your Community who come from a Masonic background.

 

The Guardian assures you and all of the friends of his prayers in their
behalf. He sends them loving greetings.

 

> Faithfully yours,

 

> Leroy Ioas

 

> *The adjustment should be wisely and cautiously made, not arbitrarily
> and drastically.*

 

> *My Bahá’í love to you.*

3 December 1955

Mrs. Muriel Miessler, Secretary

National Teaching Committee

> of the Bahá’ís of Brazil

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of November 17th with enclosures has been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

Enclosed you will find a letter addressed to the Bahá’ís who attended
the recent Teaching Conference held in Itatiaia. Please share its
contents with the friends who signed the letter.

 

He was glad to hear that Persian Bahá’ís are assisting in establishing
Assemblies in the goal towns chosen for Brazil; and hopes that, with the
help of the Brazilian Bahá’ís and American pioneers, they will be able
to speedily accomplish their task.

 

He feels sure that, with sufficient effort, and above all, in a spirit
of love and unity, the friends will be able to accomplish the tasks set
before them. The most important thing is the spirit animating the
Bahá’ís themselves; for this is what above all else will attract the
hearts of the non-Bahá’ís.

 

He assures you he will pray for the success of the teaching work there;
and he deeply appreciates the efforts of your Committee to further the
work of the Plan.

 

> With loving Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide your steps, and aid you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

3 December 1955

To the believers who attended the Bahá’í

> Teaching Conference held in Itatiaia, Brazil
>
> October 30 to November 2

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your message and the photograph of
those attending the Conference; and he has instructed me to answer you
on his behalf.

 

He feels sure that, refreshed and stimulated by your consultation, you
will have been able to carry back to your respective centres a new
impetus to the teaching work.

 

He will pray for all of you, and for the success of your devoted labours
to promote the Faith of God.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement, and
for the success of every effort you exert, and the realization of every
hope you cherish, for the promotion of our beloved Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

14 December 1955 \[Dutch Guiana\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of December 2nd has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to see that you are persevering so steadfastly in the
service of the Faith, and that you think that by next April you will
have an Assembly in Paramaribo, which would indeed be a great step
forward in establishing the Cause throughout that area.

He assures you that in the holy Shrines he will pray for your success,
and for that of all the dear and devoted pioneers and believers there.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved reward you abundantly for your splendid labours, and
guide and sustain you always, and enable you to enrich the record of
your unforgettable achievements,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 December 1955 \[Brazil\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letters of September 22nd and November 23rd 1954 have been received
by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his
behalf.

 

As you know, our beloved Guardian is not only increasingly busy, as the
Faith spreads all over the world, but has been very anxious during the
past summer over the events in Persia. Fortunately, the situation there
has now improved. This is why he has not been able to answer your
letters sooner.

 

He urges you to devote yourself to encouraging the friends to arise and
teach. He feels that, although prayer and meditation are necessary, with
sensitive, imaginative people like you who dream vividly, there is
always a danger that one may begin to interpret one’s dreams and
feelings as coming in the form of true inspiration from God, and be
carried away, without realizing it, by one’s personal ideas.

 

Those who are inclined by nature to be prayerful and intuitive need to
become more practical; and the extremely practical friends, who are
disinclined to devote sufficient time to prayer and meditation, should
cultivate this other side of their natures. In this way more balance of
temperaments can be produced for the service of the Cause.

 

You may be sure that he will pray for your husband and your children,
and also that your own services may be richly blessed.

 

> With warm greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote
the best interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

26 December 1955

Regional Teaching Committee of Chile

Care of Mr. Sergio Aparicio, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of December 15th, with photograph enclosed, has been
received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on
his behalf.

He is pleased to hear of the progress the work is making in Chile; and
particularly that you are going to concentrate on establishing new
centres, which is of the utmost importance, in view of the forthcoming
formation of Regional National Spiritual Assemblies throughout Latin
America.

He feels that, although literature and publicity are important, and help
publicize the Faith and bring it to the attention of a wider group of
people, nothing will take the place of individual teaching. The thing we
need at present is not only a wider knowledge of the Faith, but
particularly a larger membership; and this only comes through
consecrated individual effort to create friends, to attract the hearts
of these friends to ourselves as Bahá’ís, to create in them an
admiration for our character and our way of life, and then to confirm
them in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.

He will pray in the holy Shrines that your efforts may be richly
blessed, and that the Cause there may make rapid progress.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless continually your meritorious efforts, guide your
steps, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win great
and memorable victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 February 1956 \[Guyana\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Georgetown

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of December 7th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

The formation of your Assembly brought great joy to his heart, because
it surpassed the original goal of the Ten Year Plan, which was merely to
form a “nucleus” of the Faith in that country.

 

He has also appreciated the fact that the task has been difficult there,
and that great devotion and perseverance have been required to
accomplish it. The work of Dr. Malcom King has indeed been exemplary to
the highest degree! He hopes that the different racial groups will be
well represented in the Community.

 

He is urging the Bahá’ís everywhere to try and have the Bahá’í Community
representative of the population of the country insofar as possible; in
other words, where the majority of the people are Hindus, to try and
have a majority of Hindu Bahá’ís; where the majority are Christian,
Christian; where the majority are Negroes, Negroes, etc. In this way the
Cause is more deeply identified with the life of the people of the
country.

 

He was also pleased to hear that your Community is now strong enough to
offer assistance to neighbouring territories. How greatly Bahá’u’lláh
blesses His servants when they arise in His name.

 

The Guardian assures you that he will pray for the advancement of your
work, in the holy Shrines.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, aid you to overcome all
obstacles, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His
Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

22 February 1956

Sr. Sergio Aparicio, Secretary

Regional Teaching Committee of

> the Bahá’ís of Chile

Dear Bahá’í Friend:

Your letter of December 5th, 1955, has taken some time to reach the
beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to answer you on his behalf, and
to thank you for the photograph enclosed.

He is pleased to see that the work is going forward steadily in that
country. Although publicity is very important, he advises your committee
to encourage the Bahá’ís to teach individuals in their homes through
friendship and kindness, and confirm them in the Faith. In spite of the
fact that it is important for more and more people to know of the
existence of our Faith, the most important thing of all, especially now
in preparation for the future National Assemblies throughout South
America, is to confirm more Bahá’ís and establish more Spiritual
Assemblies. Wide publicity will not accomplish this — only concentrated
individual teaching.

> He will pray for the success of your labours in the holy Shrines.
>
> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote
the best interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 March 1956 \[El Salvador\]

To the Bahá’ís who wrote to the Guardian

> from San Salvador on December 4, 1955

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The loving message you sent to our beloved Guardian was received through
the kindness of Miss Stee.

He appreciates very much your sentiments of devotion and steadfastness,
and your determination to serve the Cause of God to the utmost of your
ability.

He wishes to assure you that he will remember you in the holy Shrines,
and pray for the success of the work in San Salvador.

It was a great pleasure to have Miss Stee here in Haifa, and she brought
the Central American friends very close.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote
the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

29 March 1956

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Buenos Aires

Care of Miss Maruja K. de Corradi, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of March 21st, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was indeed pleased to learn that you have acquired your
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds; which means that another important goal of the World
Spiritual Crusade has been achieved.

He urges you to persevere in your efforts for the Faith, and assures you
all of his prayers for your success.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you
always, and aid you to promote the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 April 1956 \[Dominican Republic\]

To the Bahá’ís of Ciudad Trujillo

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of March 26th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to see that your Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds and endowment have
been purchased, and that all the friends are encouraged by this marked
progress in their local affairs. He feels sure it will lend a new
impetus to the teaching work, unite the hearts of the believers, and
attract many new souls. He will certainly pray that this may be so.

> He sends you all his loving greetings.
>
> Yours in His service,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 April 1956 \[French Guiana\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of April 5th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Although you may feel that your progress is relatively slow, he is very
encouraged by it. The provisions of the Plan called for a nucleus — a very
small number indeed — in each of the virgin territories; and French Guiana
has already surpassed the original goal! He hopes that you are able to
far surpass it and fulfil your heart’s desire.

He urges you not to be discouraged, and assures you he will pray for you
in the holy Shrines.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your meritorious efforts, guide and sustain you
always, reward you for your historic labours, and enable you to win
memorable victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

17 April 1956 \[Nicaragua\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of April 9th, with the one from the Spiritual Assembly
enclosed, has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has also answered the Spiritual Assembly, and is sending the reply
through you, in case that is, perhaps, a surer and more direct way of
getting the letter to them. Please deliver it to the Assembly.

He is very happy indeed to see that the purchase of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds
has raised the spirits of the local Bahá’ís to such an extent and
rewarded them for their patient and loyal services. He feels sure that
this will stimulate the work to go forward on an unprecedented scale.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

20 April 1956 \[Brazil\]

The Bahá’í Community of Rio de Janeiro

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of April 7th was received by the beloved Guardian, and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was very happy indeed to know that you have now taken possession of
your Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, which will be the future National Headquarters of
the Faith when Brazil has its own National Spiritual Assembly. It marks
indeed an important step forward in the history of the Cause in that
country, one of the few Latin American countries whose Bahá’í history
began already in the days of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Himself.

 

He attaches great importance to the spread of the Faith in Brazil, which
is a country not only vast in size, but in potentialities, and which has
proved itself to be a melting-pot for people of different nationalities.
It has certainly a great future in the Faith and in the world.

 

He was happy to know that so many of the Persian Bahá’ís have been able
to migrate to Brazil; and hopes that they will make a special point of
settling in centres where they can easily, because of their numerical
strength, help form new Spiritual Assemblies, and thus broaden the
foundation upon which the future Regional Assembly for that area will be
formed, and eventually the National Assembly.

 

He assures you all of his loving prayers for your success in the
teaching work.

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you are serving with such zeal, devotion,
love and perseverance, reward you for your meritorious labours, guide
and sustain you always, and enable you to win great and memorable
victories in the days to come,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

25 April 1956 \[Brazil\]

Mr. Ubiratan Kupira Ere

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of March 12th has been received by our beloved Guardian, as
well as the translation of it into English made by Mr. Worley; and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf. No doubt one of the
friends there will be kind enough to translate it into Portuguese for
you, as there is nobody here who could do so.

 

It is with the greatest joy that our Guardian welcomes you into the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. As you have no doubt heard, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá attached
great importance to teaching the Faith to the original inhabitants of
America, in other words, the Indians; and said that when they became
Bahá’ís, their people would have a very great destiny, similar to the
role which was played by the original population of Arabia after
accepting the Prophet Muḥammad. Unfortunately there are not enough
Indian Bahá’ís; and he hopes that you will be a means of attracting
others, not only of your own tribe, but of other tribes, to the Cause of
God. There is no service you could render to your people, or at the
present time to the Bahá’í Faith, which would be greater than this.

 

He assures you of his loving prayers for your success, and sends you his
warmest greetings.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

3 May 1956 \[Peru\]

Mrs. Gayle Woolson

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 11th, as well as the photograph you kindly sent,
has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

He has just received the very welcome news conveyed in the cable from
the South American Convention of the increase of Assemblies and Centres.
He is immensely proud of this achievement, and it brought real happiness
to his heart.

It was a pleasure to have you here, and through you, to draw closer to
the work in South America and the National Body. He feels sure that you
were able to convey much encouragement and stimulation to the friends in
the different Centres you visited on your return from the pilgrimage.

Your tireless and devoted labours are deeply appreciated, and he will
remember you in his prayers.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to extend
continually the range of your meritorious labours in the service of His
Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

9 May 1956 \[Brazil\]

To the Bahá’ís of Bahia

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of February 15th with enclosures has been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was very pleased to see from the photographs that so many young
people were present, as it is the Youth who must inevitably carry
forward the work in the world, including the Bahá’í work, in the days to
come.

 

Bahia has special associations for us, being the first Centre,
established in the days of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Latin America, and having a
name so very significant from the Bahá’í standpoint.

 

He is happy to see you are all so active and devoted, and assures you he
will pray for your success in the holy Shrines.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved, Whose Cause you serve so devotedly and energetically,
reward you for your labours, guide and sustain you always, and aid you
to win great and memorable victories in the service of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

17 May 1956 \[Cuba\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Havana,

Care of Mrs. Carmelo Pérez Toledo, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of April 20th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to see that you are now getting ready to use your new
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, and hopes that this building, the future national
headquarters, will be of great service to the Bahá’ís there, and a means
of attracting many new people to the Faith, as well as creating
increased unity and a sense of responsibility amongst the believers
themselves.

You may be sure he will pray, for you all and for the success of the
work there, in the holy Shrines.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you in your meritorious
endeavours, remove all obstacles from your path, and aid you to win
great victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 May 1956 \[Brazil\]

The Bahá’í Community of Rio de Janeiro

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of May 2nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

Your message cheered his heart, and he is very happy indeed to see that
there are so many believers from East and West united in serving the
Faith in Brazil. He hopes that the members of the Community will
constantly bear in mind the importance of establishing new Spiritual
Assemblies, and remember that, even if such a prominent city as Rio de
Janeiro is left with only a few members over and above the number
required for their Local Assembly, it does not matter. The important
thing is to have new Spiritual Assemblies to form a broad basis for the
future Brazilian National Assembly, which must be formed before the end
of 1963.

 

He assures you all he will pray, for the success of your teaching work,
in the holy Shrines.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, aid you to overcome all
obstacles, and win great and memorable victories in the service of His
Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

23 May 1956 \[Cuba\]

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of May 9th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He feels that, as you will need a profession in order to earn your
living in the future, you should not discontinue your studies. However,
he makes two suggestions to you: that if possible you continue your
studies in a school in some city where there is not a Spiritual
Assembly, and where by your efforts you may be able to teach, and
establish an Assembly; and that you devote as much time during the
summer vacation as you can to travelling and teaching, or to going to
some weak centre and helping build it into a strong one.

As to where to go, you would do better to consult your National
Assembly, as they are well aware of where the work is most urgently
needed.

He greatly appreciates your spirit of devotion and dedication to our
beloved Faith; and he hopes that you and other young Bahá’ís like you
will accomplish important things in the years that lie ahead.

> You may be sure he will pray for your success.
>
> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, remove all obstacles
from your path, and enable you to lend an impetus to the progress of our
beloved Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 May 1956 \[Haiti\]

Mr. and Mrs. Ellsworth Blackwell

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is delighted to hear of the progress of the work in Haiti, and the
fact that there are now three Assemblies there.

Your return to Haiti he feels sure will have a great effect on the work,
and assist the friends in laying an enduring foundation for the Regional
Body to be elected next year, and, ultimately, for the Haitian National
Spiritual Assembly of the future.

Please give his love to all the dear friends there. He will pray for you
and them in the holy Shrines.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to win great
and memorable victories in the service of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 July 1956

The Bahá’ís of El Salvador

Care of Miss Marjorie Stee

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of June 20th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Now that the Bahá’ís have their own Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in El Salvador, he
hopes it will become an ever-increasing force to co-ordinate the efforts
of the friends, and a definite advantage in the teaching work, and will,
even as a magnet, attract many new souls to the Faith.

> He will pray for the success of your devoted labours.
>
> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Faith you serve with such zeal, devotion,
fidelity and perseverance, bless your high endeavours, remove all
obstacles from your path, and aid you to win memorable victories in the
service of His glorious Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

12 August 1956

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 5th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was distressed to hear of the difficult conditions which exist in ….

This is a problem which the Local Spiritual Assembly should endeavour to
resolve. If it is not possible for that body to clear it up, then the
National Spiritual Assembly must certainly do so. It is important that
such matters be settled, for the protection of the Faith.

The Guardian assures you he deeply appreciates your watchful vigilance
in the interests of the Cause. He trusts that, through the wisdom,
firmness and loving unity of the believers on the administrative bodies,
this condition may soon be straightened out.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve with such exemplary vigilance,
love, determination and loyalty, guide, bless and sustain you in your
high and constant endeavours, and enable you to enrich continually the
record of your unforgettable achievements,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

10 October 1956 \[Brazil\]

Mr. Ubiratan Cupira Erê

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of August 9th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

You have witnessed for yourself the power of prayer, and it has upheld
you, preserved your faith, and strengthened you for further service.

 

The Guardian was happy to know that you are actively serving the Faith,
and are now engaged in travelling through many parts of that vast
country. He hopes, on your journeys, you will find ready souls, who will
be eager to join the ranks of the servants and helpers of Bahá’u’lláh.

 

> He assures you of his loving prayers that your labours may be blessed.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to
promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

20 October 1956

To those who were present on September 8th

> at the Teaching Congress in Brazil

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of September 8th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He hopes that, from this meeting of a few devoted souls, great results
will come forth. If each one who attended will put forth every effort,
before the coming historic Convention, to teach, and help to further
consolidate the Faith in that promising country, and will endeavour to
fire with the same determination the hearts of all the believers, this
will prove that this small gathering has indeed been blessed by
Bahá’u’lláh, and has served to carry forward the work of the World
Spiritual Crusade.

 

> The Guardian assures you all of his loving prayers.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you
always, and enable you to promote, at all times, the vital interests of
His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

21 November 1956 \[Brazil\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of April 15th has been received, as well as the photograph
of the Indian Bahá’í and his wife, which you sent.

 

The news of the conversion of this dear man to the Faith pleased our
beloved Guardian very much, and he hopes that his wife will soon join
him in serving it. He would like you to convey to them both his loving
greetings.

 

It would be a wonderful thing if some young, self-sacrificing Bahá’í
would go with this Indian friend to teach his tribe the Faith, and the
Guardian will pray that such a soul may arise.

 

He hopes that you and your dear family are well, and assures you that
your services are deeply appreciated. He will pray for you all, and that
those you are teaching may be confirmed.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for the success of the efforts you
exert for the promotion of our beloved Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 November 1956 \[Falkland Islands\]

Mr. John Leonard

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of September 20th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He sees no objection to your making a visit to Punta Arenas, as long as
you will again be returning to the Falkland Islands. As you know, he is
immensely proud of your pioneering work in that distant and inaccessible
island, and attaches great importance to your presence there.

If the American government should command you to return, as a citizen
you would have no alternative but to obey. However, if they merely
advise you to leave, he does not think you would have to follow this
advice unless you wanted to. During the present crisis in this part of
the world, the American Bahá’ís serving here have been advised to leave;
but they have explained that they did not wish to, because of their
Bahá’í services; and that has been quite acceptable to the American
representatives in this country.

Wherever the friends are, they must obey the government in all matters
that do not affect the doctrines of their Faith.

Please give his loving greetings to Mrs. McKinnon, and assure her that
he remembers her in his prayers, and admires very much her devoted
spirit.

He will pray for you in the holy Shrines, that God may richly reward and
bless you.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you in your historic and
meritorious labours, and aid you to win great victories in the days to
come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 November 1956 \[Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of November 15th with enclosure has been received by the
beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates the devotion which has prompted you to offer a
piece of land for the future Bahá’í Temple in Argentina; and he suggests
that you make out this land either to the new Regional Body which will
be elected during the coming Riḍván, or the Spiritual Assembly of Buenos
Aires, with the proviso that, if at a later date, when the time comes to
build the Temple, the trustees feel that another piece of land would be
more suitable, they may exchange or sell your land for the other site.
He advises this because in that way it gives the trustees of the Faith
freedom to do the right thing, whereas if you make out a legal document
that forces them to use your land just for this one purpose, it might
cause complications in the future.

In any case the present piece of land or the one ultimately chosen will
forever be associated with your generosity and love.

He deeply appreciates the devotion you both have for the Faith, and
hopes you will be instrumental in confirming many souls.

> He will pray for you both in the holy Shrines.
>
> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

21 December 1956 \[Argentina\]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of December 7th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear that the suggestion he made regarding the
Temple land has relieved your minds, and that you are going to follow
his advice.

It will interest you to know that he is keeping a list of the work that
the friends on their own initiative undertake, outside of the goals of
the Ten Year Plan, and he considers that the donation of this Temple
property is sufficiently important to be included on this list;
therefore, you must be very happy.

> He will certainly remember you in his prayers.
>
> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote
effectively the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 February 1957 \[Falkland Islands\]

Mr. John Leonard

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

This is just a short note on behalf of the beloved Guardian, to
acknowledge your letter of December 28th to him.

He is proud of your spirit and your determination to teach the Faith
always to the utmost of your ability.

He assures you of his loving prayers in the holy Shrines for your
happiness and for the abundant success of your devoted labours in that
remote region.

> With warm Bahá’í love,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving and constant prayers for your success and the
extension of your unforgettable and highly meritorious services to our
beloved Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

15 February 1957 \[Haiti\]

The Bahá’í Community

> of Port-au-Prince

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving message dated February 6th was received, and the beloved
Guardian was happy to see that the Port-au-Prince Bahá’ís are so active
and devoted. He remembers the joy it brought to his heart when your
community was first established long ago, and he hopes that all of you
will devote yourselves ever-increasingly to teaching the Faith, to
promoting unity amongst the friends, and to exemplifying the standards
of Bahá’u’lláh in your personal lives. Now that the Greater Antilles are
soon to have their own National Assembly, the responsibility of the
friends is increased, and he feels sure greater victories lie before
them.

> He will remember you all in his prayers in the holy Shrines.
>
> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Amighty bless, guide and sustain you, aid you to promote the
vital interests of His Faith, and consolidate the historic work you have
achieved in the service of its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

23 February 1957 \[Argentina\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Buenos Aires

Care of Miss Maruja K. de Corradi, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of February 6th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He thanks you very much for the photographs, and the two copies of The
Hidden Words which he has received.

He is delighted over the progress being made in Argentina, and feels
that the Bahá’ís of Buenos Aires, the first city to have an Assembly,
must particularly exert themselves in the teaching field.

He will pray that you may all be richly blessed and successful in your
services.

> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and enable you to
win great victories in the service of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

5 March 1957 \[Costa Rica\]

Prof. Theodore Cortazzi

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of February 20th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is very happy to see with what devotion and enthusiasm you are
serving our glorious Faith, and he hopes you will complete the books you
have in mind, as we are in great need of suitable literature to teach
the people of the Far East, especially those who have studied their own
Faith deeply.

 

He has no objection to your dedicating one of your books to him if you
wish to do so.

 

As there were no followers of the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh derived from the
religions of the Far East in Their days, this may be the reason that
They did not address any Tablets directly to these people. Also we must
remember that every religion springs from some root, and just as
Christianity sprang from Judaism, our own religion sprang from Islám,
and that is why so many of the teachings deduce their proofs from Islám.

 

…

 

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh sustain, bless, and guide you always,
remove every obstacle from your path, and enable you to win memorable
victories for our beloved Faith in the days to come,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

18 March 1957 \[Haiti\]

Mr. and Mrs. Ellsworth Blackwell

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of March 2nd with photographs enclosed has been received by
the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to write you on his
behalf.

He was delighted to hear of the new community which has been formed in
the village of Liancourt, and feels sure that these friends will be a
valuable asset to the Faith in Haiti.

He is particularly happy that you both are serving in Haiti where you
were so successful, and where your sympathy and love for the people is
again bearing rich fruit.

He is delighted to hear that one of you, and later both of you, are
going to be able to go on with your work there. You may rest assured he
will remember you in his loving prayers in the holy Shrines.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide your steps, reward you for
your meritorious labours, and aid you to win great victories in the
service of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 March 1957 \[Ecuador\]

Mr. Jorge Efrahim Páez, Secretary

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Quito

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of March 2nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to hear that the Bahá’ís rejoice over their
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, and that it is a means of teaching the Faith to the
non-Bahá’ís and of raising its prestige in their eyes.

You may be sure he will pray for the rapid advancement of the Faith
there, and for the unity and happiness of all the friends in Ecuador.

> He sends you all his loving greetings, and assures you of his prayers.
>
> With kind regards,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless your constant and valued efforts for the
promotion of His Faith, guide every step you take, and fulfil every
desire you cherish, for the furtherance of its interests,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

28 March 1957 \[Chile\]

Regional Teaching Committee

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your loving Naw-Rúz greeting, which he
greatly appreciates.

He hopes the friends in Valparaiso and in that region will rise to
greater heights than ever before in their teaching efforts this year,
and will pray that all your endeavours in this field of service may be
richly blessed.

> With loving greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

April 1957

\[Convention Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia\]

\[Convention Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela\]

\[Convention Greater Antilles\]

\[Convention Central America and Mexico\]

*With a heart full of thanksgiving, I acclaim, on this joyous occasion,
the simultaneous convocation in Latin America, of four historic Bahá’í
Conventions, at which the elected representatives of twenty-one Bahá’í
National Communities are assembled for the purpose of electing four
Regional Spiritual Assemblies, whose emergence is destined to hasten the
erection of twenty pillars of the future Universal House of Justice
throughout Central and South America, in Mexico and the Greater
Antilles.*

 

*This latest momentous development in the evolution of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh, within so vast an area of the Western Hemisphere, marks the
opening of the fourth chapter in the history of the rise and
establishment of the Bahá’í Administrative Order in no less than twenty
Republics of the New World. The first Seven Year Plan, launched by the
American Bahá’í Community, during the turbulent years preceding the
Second World War, had, as its prime objective, the systematic
introduction of the Faith and the diffusion of its light throughout each
of those Republics. The Plan which immediately succeeded it, and whose
inception synchronized with the world-wide celebrations commemorating
the centenary of the birth of the Mission of the Báb, led, as it
unfolded, to the emergence of the two Regional Spiritual Assemblies
representing the newly-fledged Communities of South and Central America,
whilst the third stage in the development of this mighty process — a stage
initiated on the occasion of the centenary of the Mission of the Founder
of our Faith — was marked by a steady consolidation of the local as well
as the national institutions established in the course of the two
previous Plans.*

 

*So auspicious an event, heralding the formation, as the present Ten
Year Plan approaches its culmination, of twenty National Spiritual
Assemblies, within an area extending from the southern confines of the
Great Republic of the West to the extremity of Chile, should be
signalized by the initiation, on the part of these interim Regional
Spiritual Assemblies, of four subsidiary Six Year Plans, designed to
swell, to an unprecedented degree, the number of the avowed adherents of
the Faith in each of these twenty Republics, to multiply the groups and
isolated centres, as well as the Local Spiritual Assemblies constituting
the bedrock of the newly established Administrative Order; to
incorporate all firmly grounded Local Spiritual Assemblies; to obtain
recognition from the civil authorities of the Bahá’í Marriage
Certificate and of the Bahá’í Holy Days; to consolidate the work already
commenced in the newly opened virgin territories within their
jurisdiction; to initiate four regional Bahá’í Funds; to lend an impetus
to the translation, the publication and dissemination of Bahá’í
Literature; to add to the number of the existing Summer Schools; to
stimulate the process of the conversion of both the Negroes and the
American Indians, and ensure their active participation in the
administration of the affairs of Bahá’í communities; to expedite the
establishment of the Bahá’í Publishing Trust in the capital city of
Brazil; and to select and purchase in each of the Republics, as yet
deprived of a site for its future Mother Temple, a plot suitable for
this highly meritorious purpose.*

 

*I call upon the American Bahá’í Community, which, in pursuance of the
Mandate issued in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, has, as far back as
two decades ago, set in motion so momentous a process, and succeeded, in
the course of three successive Plans, in extending and consolidating it,
and particularly on the national elected representatives of this
Community, and the Committee serving as the chief agency for the
promotion of this historic task, to extend, through both material and
moral support, as well as through a steady flow of Bahá’í pioneers and
visiting teachers, the necessary assistance that will ensure the
uninterrupted prosecution and ultimate fruition of one of the weightiest
enterprises launched in the course of the execution of this Community’s
glorious Mission in foreign fields.*

 

*May these Communities, now standing on the threshold of unprecedented
achievements, which have already, through their collective endeavours,
ennobled the record of Bahá’í accomplishments during the last twenty
years of the Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation, who are so
notably contributing, through their divers national characteristics, to
the enrichment of the life of the International Bahá’í Community, be
vouchsafed a still fuller measure of celestial strength, that will
enable them to fulfil their high destiny in the years to come, and play
their part in hastening the world-wide triumph of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh and the firm establishment of its embryonic World Order.*

 

> *Shoghi*

 

15 April 1957 \[Bahá’ís of Kingston, Jamaica\]

Delighted loving appreciation assure prayers.[^20]

25 April 1957 \[Jamaica\]

ASSURE NEW ASSEMBLY LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SIGNAL VICTORIES DEEPEST
LOVE.

29 April 1957 \[Roberto Cazcarra, Uruguay\]

Assembly’s secretariat must be in Buenos Aires conforming general
principle.

5 May 1957 \[Dominican Republic\]

Miss Elisabeth H. Cheney

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 26th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to see that your long record of devoted services to the
Faith in Latin America has now been enhanced by your being elected to
the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Greater Antilles. This is a
great blessing and a great responsibility, and he hopes that you and
your fellow-believers, with the greatest love, wisdom and harmony, will
be able to carry the affairs of the Faith rapidly forward in that area.

> You may be sure he will remember you in his prayers in the holy
> Shrines.
>
> With warmest greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you have promoted, and are promoting,
with such a splendid devotion, perseverance and single-mindedness,
reward you abundantly for your labours, sustain and guide you always,
and enable you to enrich the record of your unforgettable services,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

7 May 1957

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of April 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very sad to hear of your condition, and of the sad life you have
had. You have, however, realized that the greatest joy and greatest
blessing is this beloved Faith of ours, and you have clung to it in
spite of all of your problems.

He advises you to try and persuade Mr. … to get a proper divorce and
marry you, and become active in the Bahá’í community. This is what he
should do, and, if he accepts to do this and is willing to, you and he
should write the National Assembly, asking them to assist you to obtain
this divorce in any way they can, so that your situation may become
honourable and worthy of a Bahá’í. Otherwise, if this is not possible,
you should separate yourself from him, because it is not pleasing in the
sight of God for the Bahá’ís to live in this manner, and can only lead
to nothing but sorrow and affliction of the soul.

He assures you he will pray for you, that you may remain firm and
steadfast in the Faith under all circumstances and be enabled to serve
it as every Bahá’í should.

He will also pray for Mr. …, that he may overcome this confusion and
return to the Faith, and legalize his relationship to you through a
Bahá’í marriage after obtaining his divorce.

> With warmest Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual
advancement,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

14 May 1957 \[Brazil\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís

> of Rio de Janeiro

 

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

 

Your letter of May 4th, signed by all the members of your Assembly, has
been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to
answer you on his behalf.

 

He is very happy to see that your Assembly is so alive to the need for
active service, and that you are determined, each and all, in every way
you can, to support the new National Assembly, and aid it in attaining
its goals.

 

The sooner the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies increases in each of
the Latin American countries, the sooner will it be possible for them to
have their National Assemblies. This is the primary objective of all the
believers, and he urges you to undertake as much extension teaching work
as possible in your area.

 

> Assuring you of his loving prayers, for your success, in the holy
> Shrines,

 

> With Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty graciously assist you to lend a great impetus to the
onward march of the Faith, and promote, at all times and under all
circumstances, the vital interests of its divinely appointed
institutions,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

31 May 1957 \[Bolivia\]

Mrs. Yvonne Cuéllar

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

Your letter of May 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to receive all the good news you conveyed of the
teaching work in Latin America, particularly the work with the Indians
in Bolivia. As you know, he attaches the greatest importance to
confirming these people, who constitute the original population of the
Americas. He hopes many Spiritual Assemblies will be formed amongst them
in their own villages, composed of Indians. They should receive every
assistance from the National Assembly, and special teaching conferences
should be arranged by the Bahá’ís in order to confirm them in the Faith.

He is pleased to see that you are going to be able to visit France, and
he hopes and will pray that on your visit you may be instrumental in
confirming many French people. It makes a tremendous difference if you
can converse fluently in the language of the people which, alas, few of
the American pioneers can, with all their goodwill; and if you
understand their mentality and bring fire to your task, which he knows
you will do.

He is happy to hear of the marriage of your daughter in the Temple last
year, and he assures you he will pray for all the members of your dear
family.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve so faithfully, so devotedly and
with such a splendid perseverance, reward you abundantly for your
labours, and enable you to win great victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 July 1957 \[El Salvador\]

Mr. Quentin H. Farrand

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of June 19th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very pleased to know that you are now in El Salvador, where you
are so happy in your pioneering work, and in your association with the
dear and tireless servant of Bahá’u’lláh, Artemus Lamb. The news of the
steady progress of the Faith there has delighted him.

He assures you of his fervent prayers for the abundant success of your
labours, and remembers also all the believers there in his
supplications.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless abundantly your efforts, guide and sustain you
always, and aid you to further the vital interests of His Faith,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

22 July 1957 \[Brazil\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of June 22nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is happy to have this opportunity of welcoming you into the service
of our glorious Faith, and hopes your knowledge of its teachings and
your services in its path will constantly increase as the months and
years pass.

 

It would be very good if you could, as a young man, go to live in
another city, and, by your life as a Bahá’í and your words, do all you
can to establish the Faith in a new area. You could then see from your
own experience how a Bahá’í, although alone, can reach out in spirit,
and warm, attract and eventually confirm others in this great Faith.
Also in this way you will be helping to consolidate the Faith still
further there, in preparation for the time, not too far off, when Brazil
will have its own National Spiritual Assembly.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide every step you take, and
enable you to extend the scope of your activities and win great
victories in the days to come,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

15 August 1957 \[Brazil\]

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of June 13th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He is happy to know that you are now a declared believer. You are very
fortunate in having had careful Bahá’í training all your life.

 

The Guardian hopes you will determine to be, always, an active and
devoted supporter of the Faith, and, by your words and your life as a
follower of Bahá’u’lláh, to teach it, both among the youth of Bahia, and
in other localities in Brazil.

 

> He sends you his loving greetings.

 

> With Bahá’í love,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you, and enable you to render
memorable services to His Faith in the days to come,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

30 August 1957 \[Brazil\]

Miss Clotilde Martins dos Santos

 

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

 

Your letter of July 14th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and
he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was delighted to learn of the eagerness and determination you are
putting into the trip you are making at present to various parts of
Brazil, in order to serve the Faith. He hopes the results of your
labours will be most gratifying to you, and greatly aid in the teaching
and consolidation work in that country.

 

It is his hope the Governor will become a friend of the Faith, as it
helps us to be able to have prominent people as our friends.

 

He deeply appreciates your work and your devotion, and assures you of
his prayers for your guidance and assistance.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless your endeavours for the promotion of His Faith,
and graciously assist you to lend a great impetus to the enlargement of
its limits and the consolidation of its institutions,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

30 August 1957

Dear Bahá’í Sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 11th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was pleased to see you met the death of your mother in truly a Bahá’í
spirit. In such ways we teach others, for what one soul gets from
another in their radiant acceptance of the Will of God at such a time is
far beyond any words or the reading of books, and goes far to put the
Bahá’í roots deep in that other heart.

He assures you of his loving prayers for the progress of the soul of
your dear mother, as well as for your own guidance and success.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Beloved cheer your heart, sustain and aid you, under all
circumstances, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith
in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

18 September 1957 \[Venezuela\]

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Caracas

> care of Miss Yolanda de Stronach, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 29th, and has
instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He urges you to consummate as quickly as possible the purchase of the
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds for Venezuela, which will complete one of the important
goals of the Ten Year Crusade, and which institution will surprise the
friends themselves by the great effect it will have on the progress of
the Faith there.

> He assures you of his prayers for the success of your labours.
>
> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to promote
the vital interests of His Faith, at all times and under all
circumstances,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

26 September 1957

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

Your letter of August 27th has been received by the beloved Guardian,
and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was indeed sorry to learn of the state of affairs in …. If this local
problem cannot be solved by the Local Spiritual Assembly, then it is
their duty to refer it to the National Spiritual Assembly for
consultation and decision.

> He will pray that the unhappy situation existing there may soon
> change.

The fact that the believers in … are now actively serving the Faith was
a source of great satisfaction to him.

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,
>
> R. Rabbani

*May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your manifold, historic, and
highly meritorious accomplishments, guide and sustain you always, and
aid you to win still greater victories in the days to come,*

> *Your true brother,*
>
> *Shoghi*

11 October 1957

Mr. Habib Taherzadeh, Secretary

> Regional Teaching Congress, Curitiba

 

Dear Bahá’í Brother:

 

Your letter of September 7th has been received, and the beloved Guardian
has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

 

He was happy to learn that the Congress was such a means of love and
fellowship among the friends.

 

The goal of your teaching work should be to add to the number of
existing centres and groups and to establish many new Spiritual
Assemblies in that area. In this way you will provide for the
independent National Spiritual Assembly of Brazil, which must emerge
within so brief a period of time, a broad and firm foundation.

 

> He assures you all of his loving prayers.

 

> With warm Bahá’í greetings,

 

> R. Rabbani

 

*May the Beloved bless and sustain you and your dear co-workers, and
enable you to further, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,*

 

> *Your true brother,*

 

> *Shoghi*

[^1]: The original endowment land was located at Loncoche. Land near
    Santiago was acquired later.

[^2]: Refers to the passing of May Maxwell.

[^3]: Refers to the formation of the first Spiritual Assembly of
    Santiago.

[^4]: Refers to the formation of Spiritual Assemblies in Peru and
    Paraguay.

[^5]: Refers to the announcement that there were ten Bahá’ís in
    Magallanes.

[^6]: Refers to the announcement of the formation of the Spiritual
    Assembly in La Paz, Bolivia, and two Bahá’ís in Sucre.

[^7]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly in Punta Arenas.

[^8]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly in Santiago.

[^9]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly in Ciudad
    Trujillo.

[^10]: Refers to the formation of the first Spiritual Assembly in
    Ecuador, in Guayaquil.

[^11]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly of Valparaiso.

[^12]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly of Santiago.

[^13]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly of Rio de
    Janeiro.

[^14]: Refers to the formation of Spiritual Assemblies in La Paz and
    Sucre.

[^15]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly of Sao Paulo.

[^16]: Message to the Second South American Bahá’í Congress, in
    Santiago.

[^17]: Refers to the Caribbean Bahá’í Congress in Mexico City.

[^18]: Message to the Central American Bahá’í Conference in Guatemala
    City.

[^19]: Refers to the formation of the Spiritual Assembly in Cienfuegos.

[^20]: Refers to the incorporation of the Spiritual Assembly in
    Kingston, Jamaica.
