SURA VI - THE CATTLE (6) [Mecca - 165 verses]               LXXXIX - 317     
 
       In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
 
       Praise be to God, who hath created the Heavens and the Earth, and
ordained the darkness and the light!  Yet unto their Lord do the infidels give
peers!
 
       He it is who created you of clay - then decreed the term of your life:
and with Him is another prefixed term for the resurrection.  Yet have ye doubts
thereof!
 
       And He is God in the Heavens and on the Earth!  He knoweth your secrets
and your disclosures! and He knoweth what ye deserve.
 
       Never did one single sign from among the signs of their Lord come to
them, but they turned away from it;
 
       And now, after it hath reached them, have they treated the truth itself
as a lie.  But in the end, a message as to that which they have mocked, shall
reach them.
 
       See they not how many generations we have destroyed before them?  We had
settled them on the earth as we have not settled you, and we sent down the very
heavens upon them in copious rains, and we made the rivers to flow beneath
their feet:  yet we destroyed them in their sins, and raised up other
generations to succeed them.
 
       And had we sent down to thee a Book written on parchment, and they had
touched it with their hands, the infidels had surely said, "This is nought but
plain sorcery."
 
       They say, too, "Unless an angel be sent down to him...."  But if we had
sent down an angel, their judgment would have come on them at once, and they
would have had no respite:
 
       And if we had appointed an angel, we should certainly have appointed one
in the form of a man, and we should have clothed him before them in garments
like their own.
 
6:10   Moreover, apostles before thee have been laughed to scorn:  but that
which they laughed to scorn encompassed the mockers among them!
 
       Say:  go through the land:  then see what hath been the end of those who
treated them as liars.
 
       Say:  Whose is all that is in the Heavens and the Earth?   Say:  God's.
He had imposed mercy on Himself as a law.  He will surely assemble you on the
Resurrection day; there is no doubt of it.  They who are the authors of their
own ruin, are they who will not believe.
 
       His, whatsoever hath its dwelling in the night and in the day! and He,
the Hearing, the Knowing!
 
       Say:  Other than god shall I take as Lord, maker of the Heavens and of
the Earth, who nourisheth all, and of none is nourished?  Say:  Verily, I am
bidden to be the first of those who surrender them to God (profess Islam):
and, be not thou of those who join gods with God.
 
       Say:  Verily, I fear, should I rebel against my Lord, the punishment of
the great day.
 
       From whomsoever it shall be averted on that day, He will have had mercy
on him:  and this will be the manifest bliss.
 
       If God touch thee with trouble, none can take it off but He:  and if He
visit thee with good - it is He whose power is over all things;
 
       And He is the Supreme over his servants; and He is the Wise, the
Cognisant!
 
       Say:  What thing is weightiest in bearing witness?  Say:  God is witness
between me and you; and this Koran hath been revealed to me that I should warn
you by it, and all whom it shall reach,.  What! will ye really bear witness
that there are other gods with God?  Say:  I bear no such witness.  Say:
Verily, He is one God, and I truly am guiltless of what ye join with Him.
 
6:20   They to whom we have given the Book, recognise him (Muhammad) as they do
their own children:  but they who are the authors of their own perdition are
they who will not believe.
 
       And who more wicked than he who inventeth a lie concerning God, or who
treateth our signs as lies?  Verily those wicked ones shall not prosper.
 
       And on "the Day" we will gather them all together:  then will we say to
those who joined gods with God, "Where are those companion-gods of yours, as ye
supposed them?"
 
       Then shall they find no other excuse than to say, "By God our Lord! we
joined not companions with Him."
 
       Behold! how they lie against themselves - and the gods of their own
inventing desert them!
 
       Some among them hearken unto thee:  but we have cast veils over their
hearts that they should not understand the Koran, and a weight into their ears:
and though they should see all kinds of signs, they will refuse all faith in
them, until when they come to thee, to dispute with thee, the infidels say,
"Verily, this is nothing but fables of the ancients."
 
       And they will forbid it, and depart from it: - but they6 are only the
authors of their own perdition, and know it not.
 
       If thou couldst see when they shall be set over the fire, and shall say,
"Oh! would we might be sent back! we would not treat the signs of our Lord as
lies! we would be of the believers."
 
       Aye!  that hath become clear to them which they before concealed; but
though they should return, they would surely go back to that which was
forbidden them; for they are surely liars!
 
       And they say, "There is no other than our life in world, neither shall
we be raised again."
 
6:30   But if thou couldest see when they shall be set before their Lord!  He
shall say to them, "Is not this it in truth."  They shall say, "Yea, by our
Lord!"  "Taste then," saith He, "the torment, for that ye believed not!"
 
       Lost are they who deny the meeting with God until "the Hour" cometh
suddenly upon them!  Then will they say, "Oh, our signs for past negligence of
this hour!" and they shall bear their burdens on their back!  Will not that be
evil with which they shall be burdened?
 
       The life in this world is but a play and pastime; and better surely for
men of godly fear will be the future mansion!  Will ye not then comprehend?
 
       Now know we that what they speak vexeth thee:  But it is not merely thee
whom they charge with falsehood, but the ungodly gainsay the signs of God.
 
       Before thee have apostles already been charged with falsehood:  but they
bore the charge and the wrong with constancy, till our help came to them; - for
none can change the words of God.  But this history of His Sent Ones hath
already reached thee.
 
       But if their estrangement be grievous to thee, and if thou art able to
seek out an opening into the earth or a ladder into Heaven, that thou mightest
bring them a sign.... Yes!  But if God pleased, He would surely bring them, one
and all, to the guidance! therefore be not thou one of the ignorant.
 
       To those only who shall lend an ear will He make answer:  as for the
dead, God will raise them up; then unto Him shall they return.
 
       They say, "Unless a sign be sent down to him from his Lord...."  Say:
Verily, God is able to send down a sign; but the greater part of them know it
not.
 
       No kind of beast is there on earth nor fowl that flieth with its wings,
but is a folk like you:  nothing have we passed over in the Book:  then unto
their Lord shall they be gathered.
 
       They who gainsay our signs are deaf, and dumb, in darkness:  God will
mislead whom He pleaseth, and whom He pleaseth He will place upon the straight
path.
 
6:40   Say:  What think ye?  If the punishment of God were to come upon you, or
"the Hour" were to come upon you, will ye cry to any other than God?  Tell me,
if ye speak the truth?
 
       Yes! to Him will ye cry:  and if He please He will deliver you from that
ye shall cry to Him to avert, and ye shall forget the partners ye have joined
with Him.
 
       Already have we sent apostles to nations that were before thee, and we
laid hold on them with troubles and with straits in order that they might
humble themselves:
 
       Yet, when our trouble came upon them, they did not humble themselves;
but their hearts were hardened, and Satan pre-arranged for them their course of
conduct.
 
       And when they had forgotten their warnings, we set open to them the
gates of all things, until, as they were rejoicing in our gifts, we suddenly
laid hold upon them, and lo!  they were plunged into despair.
 
       And the uttermost part of that impious people was cut off.  All praise
be to God, the Lord of the Worlds!
 
       Say:  What think ye?  If God should take away your hearing and your
sight and set a seal upon your hearts, what god beside God would restore them
to you?  See!  how we vary our wondrous verses (signs)!  yet they turn away
from them!
 
       Say:  What think ye?  If the punishment of God come on you suddenly or
foreseen, shall any perish except the impious?
 
       We send not our Sent Ones but as heralds of good news and warners; and
whoso shall believe and amend, on them shall come no fear, neither shall they
be sorrowful:
 
       But whoso shall charge our signs with falsehood, on them shall fall a
punishment for their wicked doings.
 
6:50   Say:  I say not to you, "In my possession are the treasures of God;"
neither say I, "I know things secret;" neither do I say to you, "Verily, I am
an angel:"  Only what is revealed to me do I follow.  Say:  Shall the blind and
the seeing be esteemed alike?  Will ye not then reflect?
 
       And warn those who dread their being gathered to their Lord, that patron
or intercessor they shall have none but Him, - to the intent that they may fear
Him!
 
       And thrust not thou away those who cry to their Lord at morn and even,
craving to behold his face.  It is not for thee in anything to judge of their
motives, nor for them in anything to judge of thee.  If thou thrust them away
thou wilt be of the doers of wrong.
 
       Thus have we made proof of some of them by others, that they may say,
"Are these they among us to whom God hath been gracious?" Doth not God best
know the thankful?
 
       And when they who believe in our signs come to thee, Say:  Peace be upon
you!  Your Lord hath laid down for himself a law of mercy; so that if any one
of you commit a fault through ignorance, and afterwards turn and amend, He
surely will be Gracious, Merciful.
 
       Thus have we distinctly set forth our signs, that the way of the wicked
might be made known.
 
       Say:  Forbidden am I to worship those whom ye call on beside God.  Say:
I will not follow your wishes; for then should I have gone astray, and should
not be of the guided.
 
       Say:  I act upon proofs from my Lord, but ye treat them as falsehoods.
That punishment which ye desire to be hastened is not in my power; judgment is
with God only:  He will declare the truth; and He is the best settler of
disputes.
 
       Say:  If what ye would hasten on, were in my power, the matter between
me and you had been decided:  but God best knoweth the impious.
 
       And with Him are the keys of the secret things; none knoweth them but
He:  He knoweth whatever is on the land and in the sea; and no leaf falleth
but He knoweth it; neither is there a grain in the darknesses of the earth,
nor a thing green or sere, but it is noted in a distinct writing.
 
6:60   It is He who taketh your souls at night, and knoweth what ye have
merited in the day:  then he awaketh you therein, that the set life-term may be
fulfilled:  then unto Him shall ye return; and then shall he declare to you
that which ye have wrought.
 
       Supreme over his servants He sendeth forth guardians who watch over you,
until, when death overtaketh any one of you, our messengers take his soul, and
fail not:
 
       Then are they returned to God their Lord, the True.  Is not judgment
His?  Swiftest He, of those who take account!
 
       Say:  Who rescueth you from the darkness of the land and of the sea,
when humbly and secretly ye cry to Him - "If thou rescue us from this, we will
surely be of the thankful?"
 
       Say:  God rescueth you from them, and from every strait:  yet afterwards
ye give Him companions!
 
       Say:  It is He who hath power to send on you a punishment from above
you, or from beneath your feet, or to clothe you with discord, and to make some
of you to taste the violence of others.  See how variously we handle the
wondrous verses, that haply they may become wise!
 
       But thy people hath accused the Koran of falsehood, though it be the
truth:  Say:  I am not in charge of you:  To every prophecy is its set time,
and bye-and-bye ye shall know it!
 
       And when thou seest those who busy themselves with cavilling at our
signs, withdraw from them till they busy themselves in some other subject:  and
if Satan cause thee to forget this, sit not, after recollection, with the
ungodly people:
 
       Not that they who fear God are to pass any judgment upon them, but the
object of recollection is that they may continue to fear Him.
 
       And quit those who make their religion a sport and a pastime, and whom
this present life hath deceived:  warn them hereby that every soul will be
consigned to doom for its own works:  patron or intercessor, beside God, shall
it have none:  and could it compensate with fullest compensation, it would not
be accepted from it.  They who for their deeds shall be consigned to doom - for
them are draughts of boiling water, and a grievous torment; for that they
believed not!
 
6:70   Say:  Shall we, beside God, call upon those who can neither help nor
hurt us?  Shall we turn upon our heel after that God hath guided us?  Like some
bewildered man whom the Satans have spell-bound in the desert, though his
companions call him to the true guidance, with, "Come to us!"  Say:  Verily,
guidance from God, that is the true guidance; and we are commanded to surrender
ourselves to the Lord of the Worlds.
 
       And observe ye the times of prayer, and fear ye God:  for it is He to
whom ye shall be gathered.
 
       And it is He who hath created the Heavens and the Earth, in truth, and
when He saith to a thing, "Be," it is.
 
       His word is the truth:  and His the kingdom, on the day when there shall
be a blast on the trumpet:  He knoweth alike the unseen and the seen:  and He
is the Wise, the Cognisant.
 
       And remember when Abraham said to his father Azar, Takest thou images as
gods?  Verily, I see that thou and thy people are in manifest error.
 
       And thus did we shew Abraham the kingdom of the Heavens and of the
Earth, that he might be stablished in knowledge.
 
       And when the night overshadowed him, he beheld a star.  "This," said he,
"is my Lord:"  but when it set, he said, "I love not gods which set."
 
       And when he beheld the moon uprising, "This," said he, "is my Lord:" but
when it set, he said, "Surely, if my Lord guide me not, I shall surely be of
those who go astray."
 
       And when he beheld the sun uprise, he said, "This is my Lord; this is
greatest."  But when it set, he said, "O my people!  I share not with you the
guilt of joining gods with God;
 
       I turn my face to him who hath created the Heavens and the Earth,
following the right religion:  I am not one of those who add gods to God.
 
6:80   And his people disputed with him.  - He said:  "Dispute ye with me about
God, when He hath guided me?  And I fear not the deities whom ye join with Him,
for only by the will of m,y Lord have they any power:  My Lord embraceth all
things in His knowledge.  Will ye not then consider?
 
       And how should I fear what ye have joined with God, since ye fear not
for having joined with Him that for which He hath sent you down no warranty?
Which, therefore, of the two parties is more worthy of safety?  Know ye that?
 
       They who believe, and who clothe not their faith with error.  theirs is
safety, and they are guided aright."
 
       This is our reasoning with which we furnished Abraham against his
people:  We uplift to grades of wisdom whom we will; Verily thy Lord is Wise,
Knowing.
 
       And we gave him Isaac and Jacob, and guided both aright; and we had
before guided Noah; and among the descendants of Abraham, David and Solomon,
and Job and Joseph, and Moses and Aaron:  Thus do we recompense the righteous:
 
       And Zachariah, John, Jesus, and Elias:  all were just persons:
 
       And Ismael and Elisha and Jonas and Lot:  all these have we favoured
above mankind:
 
       And some of their fathers, and of their offspring, and of their
brethren:  and we chose them, and guided them into the straight way.
 
       This is God's guidance:  He guideth by it such of his servants as he
will:  But if they join other gods with Him, vain assuredly shall be all their
works.
 
       These are they to whom we gave the Scripture and Wisdom and Prophecy:
but if these their posterity believe not therein, we will entrust these gifts
to a people who will not disbelieve therein.
 
6:90   These are they whom God hath guided:  follow therefore their guidance.
Say:  No pay do I ask of you for this:  Verily it is no other than the teaching
for all creatures.
 
       No just estimate do they form of God when they say, "Nothing hath God
sent down to man." Say:  Who sent down the Book which Moses brought, a light
and guidance to man, which ye set down on paper, publishing part, but
concealing most; though ye have now been taught that which neither ye nor your
fathers knew?  Say:  It is God:  then leave them in their pastime of
cavillings.
 
       And this Book which we have sent down is blessed, confirming that which
was before it; and in order that thou mightest warn the mother-city and those
who dwell round about it.  They who believe in the next life will believe in
It, and will keep strictly to their Prayers.
 
       But is any more wicked than he who deviseth a lie of God, or saith, "I
have had a revelation," when nothing was revealed to him?  And who saith, "I
can bring down a book like that which God hath sent down"?  But couldst thou
see when the ungodly are in the floods of death, and the angels reach forth
their hands saying, "Yield up your souls:  - this day shall ye be recompensed
with a humiliating punishment for your untrue sayings about God, and for
proudly rejecting his signs!"
 
       "And now are ye come back to us, alone, as we created you at first, and
ye leave behind you the good things which we had given you, and we see not with
you your intercessors whom ye regarded as the companions of God among you.
There is a severance between you  now, and those whom ye regarded as partners
with God have deserted you."
 
       Verily God causeth the grain and the date stone to put forth:  He
bringeth forth the living from the dead, and the dead from the living!  This is
God!  Why, then, are ye turned aside from Him?
 
       He causeth the dawn to appear, and hath ordained the night for rest, and
the sun and the moon for computing time!  The ordinance of the Mighty, the
Wise!
      Andit is He who hath ordained the stars for you that ye may be guided
thereby in the darknesses of the land and of the sea! clear have we made our
signs to men of knowledge.
 
       And it is He who hath produced you from one man, and hath provided for
you an abode and resting-place!  Clear have we made our signs for men of
insight.
 
       And it is He who sendeth down rain from Heaven:  and we bring forth by
it the buds of all the plants, and from them bring we forth the green foliage,
and the close growing grain, and palm trees with sheaths of clustering dates,
and gardens of grapes, and the olive and the pomegranate, like and unlike.
Look ye on their fruits when they fruit and ripen.  Truly herein are signs unto

people who believe.
 
6:100  Yet have they assigned the Djinn to God as his associates, though He
created them; and in their ignorance have they falsely ascribed to him sons and
daughters.  Glory be to Him!  And high let Him be exalted above that which they
attribute to Him!
 
       Sole maker of the Heavens and of the Earth!  how, when He hath no
consort, should He have a son?  He hath created everything, and He knoweth
everything!
 
        This God your Lord.  There is no God but He, the creator of all things:
therefore worship Him alone; - and He watcheth over all things.
 
       No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in all vision:  and He is the
Subtile, the All-informed.
 
       Now have proofs that may be seen, come to you from your Lord; whoso
seeth them, the advantage will be his own:  and whoso is blind to them, his own
will be the loss:  I am not made a keeper over you.
 
       Thus variously do we apply our signs, that they may say, " Thou hast
studied deep:" and that to people of understanding we may make them clear.
 
       Follow thou that which hath been revealed to thee by thy Lord:  there is
no god but He! and withdraw from those who join other gods with Him.
 
       Had God pleased, they had not joined other gods with Him:  and we have
not made thee keeper over them, neither art thou a guardian over them.
 
       Revile not those whom they call on beside God, lest they, in their
ignorance, despitefully revile Him.  Thus have we planned out their actions for
every people; then shall they return to their Lord, and He will declare to
them what those actions have been.
 
       With their most solemn oath have they sworn by God, that if a sign come
unto them they will certainly believe it;  Say:  Signs are in the power of God
alone; and He teacheth you not thereby, only because when they were wrought, ye
did not believe.
 
6:110  And we will turn their hearts and their eyes away from the truth,
because they did not believe therein at first, and we will leave them in their
transgressions, wandering in perplexity.
 
       And though we had sent down the angels to them, and the dead had spoken
to them, and we had gathered all things about them in tribes, they had not
believed, unless God had willed it! but most of them do not know it.
 
       Thus have we given an enemy to every prophet - Satans among men and
among Djinn:  tinsel discourses do they suggest the one to the other, in order
to deceive:  and had they Lord willed it, they would not have done it.
Therefore, leave them and their vain imaginings -
 
       And let the hearts of those who believe not in the life to come incline
thereto, and let them find their content in this, and let them gain what they
are gaining.
 
       What!  shall I seek other judge than God, when it is He who hath sent
down to you the distinguishing Book?  They to whom we have given the Book know
that it is sent down from thy Lord with truth.  Be not thou then of those we
doubt.
 
       And the words of thy Lord are perfect in truth and in justice:  none can
change his words:  He is the Hearing, Knowing.
 
       But if thou obey most men in this land, from the path of God will they
mislead thee:  they follow but a conceit, and they are only liars.
 
       Thy Lord!  He best knoweth those who err from his path, and He knoweth
the rightly guided.
 
       Eat of that over which the name of God hath been pronounced, if ye
believe in his sings.
 
       And why eat ye not of that over which the name of God hath been
pronounced, since He hath made plain to you what He hath forbidden you, save as
to that which is forced upon you?  But indeed many mislead others by their
appetites, through lack of knowledge.  Verily, thy Lord!  He best knoweth the
transgressors.
 
6:120  And abandon the semblance of wickedness, and wickedness itself.  They,
verily, whose only acquirement is iniquity, shall be rewarded for what they
shall have gained.
 
       Eat not therefore of that on which the name of God has not been named,
for that is assuredly a crime:  the Satans will indeed suggest to their
votaries to wrangle with you; but if ye obey them, ye will indeed be of those
who join gods with God.
 
       Shall the dead, whom we have quickened, and for whom we have ordained a
light whereby he may walk among men, be like him, whose likeness is in the
darkness, whence he will not come forth?  Thus have the doings of the
unbelievers been prepared for them.
 
       Even so have we placed in every city, ringleaders of its wicked ones, to
scheme therein:  but only against themselves shall they scheme! and they know
it not.
 
       And when a sign cometh to them they say, "We will not believe, till the
like of what was accorded to the apostles of God, be accorded to us."  God best
knoweth where to place his mission.  Disgrace with God, and a vehement
punishment shall come upon the transgressors for their crafty plottings.
 
       And whom God shall please to guide, that man's breast will He open to
Islam; but whom He shall please to mislead, strait and narrow will He make his
breast, as though he were mounting up into the very Heavens!  Thus doth God
inflict dire punishment on those who believe not.
 
       And this is the right way of thy Lord.  Now have we detailed our signs
unto those who will consider.
 
       For them is a dwelling of peace with their Lord! and in recompense for
their works, shall he be their protector.
 
       On the day whereon God shall gather them all together... "O race of
Djinn," will He say, "much did ye exact from mankind."  And their votaries from
among men shall say, "O our Lord! we rendered one another mutual services:  but
we have reached our set term, which thou hast set for us."  He will say, "Your
abode the fire! therein abide ye for ever:  unless as God shall will."  Verily,
thy Lord is Wise, Knowing.
 
       Even thus place we some of the wicked over others, as the meed of their
doings.
 
6:130  O race of Djinn and men! came not apostles to you from among yourselves,
rehearsing my signs to you, and warning you of the meeting of this your day?
They shall say, "We bear witness against ourselves."  This world's life
deceived them; and they shall bear witness against themselves that they were
infidels: -
 
       This, because thy Lord would not destroy the cities in their sin, while
their people were yet careless.
 
       And for all, are grades of recompense as the result of their deeds; and
of what they do, thy Lord is not regardless.
 
       And thy Lord is the Rich one, full of compassion!  He can destroy you if
He please, and cause whom He will to succeed you, as he raised you up from the
offspring of other people:
 
       Verily, that which is threatened you shall surely come to pass, neither
shall ye weaken its might.
 
       Say:  O my people!  Act as ye best can:  I verily will act my part, and
hereafter shall ye know
 
       Whose will be the recompense of the abode!  Verily, the ungodly shall
not prosper.
 
       Moreover, they set apart a portion of the fruits and cattle which he
hath produced, and say, "This is for God" - so deem they - "And this for his
companions, whom we associate with Him"  But that which is for these
companions of theirs, cometh not to God; yet that which is for God, cometh to
the companions!  Ill do they judge.
 
       Thus have the companion-gods induced many of these, who join them with
God, to slay their children, that they might ruin them, and throw the cloak of
confusion over their religion.  But if God had pleased, they had not done this.
Therefore, leave them and their devices.
 
       They also say, "These cattle and fruits are sacred:  none may taste them
but whom we please:"  so deem they - "And there are cattle, whose backs should
be exempt from labour."  And there are cattle over which they do not pronounce
the name of God:  inventing in all this a lie against Him.  For their
inventions shall He reward them.
 
6:140  And they say, "That which is in the wombs of these cattle is allowed to
our males, and forbidden to our wives;" but if it prove abortive, both partake
of it.  God shall reward them for their distinctions!  Knowing, Wise is He.
 
       Lost are they who, in their ignorance, have foolishly slain their
children, and have forbidden that which God hath given them for food, devising
an untruth against God!  Now have they erred; and they were not rightly guided.
 
       He it is who produceth gardens of the vine trellised and untrellised,
and the palm trees, and the corn of various food, and olives, and pomegranates,
like and unlike.  East of their fruit when they bear fruit, and pay the due
thereof on the day of its ingathering:  and be no prodigal, for God loveth not
the prodigal.
 
       And there are cattle for burdens and for journeys.  Eat of what God hath
given you for food; and follow not the steps of Satan, for he is your declared
enemy.
 
       You have four sorts of cattle in pairs:  of sheep a pair, and of goals a
pair.  Say:  Hath He forbidden the two males or the two females; or that which
the wombs of the two females enclose?  Tell me with knowledge, if ye speak the
truth:
 
       And of camels a pair, and of oxen a pair.  Say:  Hath He forbidden the
two males or the two females; or that which the wombs of the two females
enclose?  Were ye witnesses when God enjoined you this?  Who then is more
wicked that he who, in his ignorance, inventeth a lie against God, to mislead
men?  God truly guideth not the wicked.
 
       Say:  I find not in what hath been revealed to me aught forbidden to the
eater to eat, except it be that which dieth of itself, or blood poured forth,
or swine's flesh; for this is unclean or profane, being slain in the name of
other than God.  But whoso shall be a forced partaker, if it be without
wilfulness, and not in transgression, - verily, thy Lord is Indulgent,
Merciful!
 
       To the Jews did we forbid every beast having an entire hoof, and of both
bullocks and sheep we forbade them the fat, save what might be on their back,s
or their entrails, and the fat attached to the bone.  With this have we
recompensed them, because of their transgressions:  and verily, we are indeed
equitable.
 
       If they treat thee as an impostor, then Say:  Your Lord is of
all-embracing mercy:  but his severity shall not be turned aside from the
wicked.
 
       They who add gods to God will say, "If God had pleased, neither we nor
our fathers had given him companions, nor should we have interdicted
anything.," thus did they who flourished before them charge with imposture,
until they had tasted our severity!  Say:  Have ye any knowledge that ye can
produce to us?  Verily, ye follow only a conceit:  ye utter only lies!
 
6:150  Say:  Peremptory proof is God's!  Had He pleased He had guided you all
aright.
 
       Say:  Bring hither your witnesses who can witness that God hath
forbidden these animals; but if they bear witness, witness not thou with them
nor witness to the conceits of those who charge our signs with falsehood, and
who believe not in the life to come, and give equals to our Lord.
 
       Say:  Come, I will rehearse what your Lord hath made binding on you -
that ye assign not aught to Him as partner; and that ye be good to your
parents; and that ye slay not your children because of poverty:  for them and
for you will we provide:  and that ye come not near to pollutions, outward or
inward:  and that ye slay not anyone whom God hath forbidden you, unless for a
just cause.  This hath he enjoined on you, to the intent that ye may
understand.
 
       And come not nigh to the substance of the orphan, but to improve it,
until he come of age:  and use a full measure, and a just balance:  We will not
task a soul beyond its ability.  And when ye give judgment, observe justice,
even though it be the affair of a kinsman, and fulfil the covenant of God.
this hath God enjoined you for your monition -
 
       And, "this is my right way."  Follow it then; and follow not other paths
lest ye be scattered from His path.  This hath he enjoined you, that ye may
fear Him.
 
       Then gave we the Book to Moses - complete for him who should do right,
and a decision for all matters, and a guidance, and a mercy, that they might
believe in the meeting with their Lord.
 
       Blessed, too, this Book which we have sent down.  Wherefore follow it
and fear God, that ye may find mercy:
 
       Lest ye should say, "The Scriptures were indeed sent down only unto two
peoples before us, but we were not able to go deep into their studies:"
 
       Or lest ye should say, "If a book had been sent down to us, we had
surely followed the guidance better than they." But now hath a clear exposition
come to you from your Lord, and a guidance and a mercy.  Who then is more
wicked than he who treateth the signs of God as lies, and turneth aside from
them?  We will recompense those who turn aside from our signs with an evil
punishment, because they have turned aside.
 
       What wait they for, but the coming of the angels to them, or the coming
of thy Lord Himself, or that some of the signs of thy Lord should come to pass?
On the day when some of thy Lord's signs shall come to pass, its faith shall
not profit a soul which believed not before, nor wrought good works in virtue
of its faith.  Say:  Wait ye.  Verily, we will wait also.
 
6:160  As to those who split up their religion and become sects, have thou
nothing to do with them:  their affair is with God only.  Hereafter shall he
tell them what they have done.
 
       He who shall present himself with good works shall receive a tenfold
reward; but he who shall present himself with evil works shall receive none
other than a like punishment:  and they shall not be treated unjustly.
 
       Say:  As for me, my Lord hath guided me into a straight path; a true
religion, the creed of Abraham, the sound in faith; for he was not of those
who join gods with God.
 
       Say:  My prayers and my worship and my life and my death are unto God,
Lord of the Worlds.  He hath no associate.  This am I commanded, and I am the
first of the Muslims.
 
       Say:  Shall I seek any other Lord than God, when He is Lord of all
things?  No soul shall labour but for itself; and no burdened one shall bear
another's burden.  At last ye shall return to your Lord, and he will declare
that to you about which you differ.
 
       And it is He who hath made you the successors of others on the earth,
and hath raised some of you above others by various grades, that he may prove
you by his gifts.  Verily thy Lord is swift to punish.  But He is also
Gracious, Merciful!
 
