SURA XLIX (49) - THE APARTMENTS      (Medina - 18 Verses)      (CXII - 468)   
 
       In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
 
       O Believers! enter not upon any affair ere God and His Apostle permit
you; and fear ye God: for God Heareth, Knoweth.
 
       O Believers! raise not your voices above the voice of the Prophet,
neither speak loud to him as ye speak loud one to another, lest your works come
to nought, and ye unaware of it.
 
       They who lower their voices in the presence of the Apostle of God, are
the persons whose hearts God hath inclined to piety.  Forgiveness shall be
theirs and a rich reward.
 
       They who call out to thee while thou art within thine apartments, have
most of them no right perception of what is due to thee.
 
       But if they wait patiently till thou come forth to them, it were far
better for them.  But God is Indulgent, Merciful.
 
       O Believers! if any bad man come to you with news, clear it up at once,
lest through ignorance ye harm others, and speedily have to repent of what ye
have done.
 
       And know that an Apostle of God is among you! should he give way to you
in many matters ye would certainly become guilty of a crime.  But God hath
endeared the faith to you, and hath given it favour in your hearts, and hath
made unbelief, and wickedness, and disobedience hateful to you.  Such are they
who pursue a right course.
 
       Through the bounty and grace which is from God: and God is Knowing,
Wise.
 
       If two bodies of the faithful are at war, then make ye peace between
them: and if the one of them wrong the other, fight against that part which
doth the wrong, until they come back to the precepts of God: if they come back,
make peace between them with fairness, and act impartially; God loveth those
who act with impartiality.
 
49:10  Only the faithful are brethren; wherefore make peace between your
brethren; and fear God, that ye may obtain mercy.
 
       O Believers! let not men laugh men to scorn who haply may be better
than themselves; neither let women laugh women to scorn who may haply be better
than themselves!  Neither defame one another, nor call one another by
nicknames.  Bad is it to be called wicked after having professed the faith:
and whoso repent not of this are doers of wrong.
 
       O Believers! avoid frequent suspicions, for some suspicions are a crime;
and pry not: neither let the one of you traduce another in his absence.  Would
any one of you like to eat the flesh of his death brother?  Surely ye would
loathe it.  And fear ye God: for God is Ready to turn, Merciful.
 
       O men! verily, we have created you of a male and a female; and we have
divided you into peoples and tribes that ye might have knowledge one of
another.  Truly, the most worthy of honour in the sight of God is he who
feareth Him most.  Verily, God is Knowing, Cognisant.
 
       The Arabs of the desert say, "We believe."  Say thou: Ye believe not;
but rather say, "We profess Islam;" for the faith hath not yet found its way
into your hearts.  But if ye obey God and His Apostle, he will not allow you to
lose any of your actions: for God is Indulgent, Merciful.
 
       The true believers are those only who believe in God and His Apostle,
and afterwards doubt not; and who contend with their substance and their
persons on the path of God.  These are the sincere.
 
       Say:  Will ye teach God about your religion? when God knoweth whatever
is in the Heavens and on the Earth: yea, God hath knowledge of all things.
 
       They taunt thee with their having embraced Islam.  Say: Taunt me not
with your having embraced Islam: God rather taunteth you with His having guided
you to the faith: acknowledge this if ye are sincere.
 
       Verily, God knoweth the secrets of the Heavens and of the Earth: and God
beholdeth what ye do.
 
 
