SURA LVIII (58) - She Who Pleaded       (Medina - 22 Verses)      (CVI - 450)  
 
       In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
 
       God hath heard the words of her who pleaded with thee against her
       God hath heard the words of her who pleaded with thee against her
husband, and made her plaint to God; and God hath heard your mutual
intercourse:  for God Heareth, Beholdeth.
 
       As to those of you who put away their wives by say, "Be thou to me as my
mother's back" - their mothers they are not; they only are their mothers who
gave them birth! they certainly say a blameworthy thing and an untruth:
 
       But truly, God is Forgiving, Indulgent.
 
       And those who thus put away their wives, and afterwards would recall
their words, must free a captive before they can come together again.  To this
are ye warned to confirm: and God is aware of what ye do.
 
       And he who findeth not a captive to set free, shall fast two months in
succession before they two come together.  And he who shall not be able to do
so, shall feed sixty poor men.  This, that he may believe in God and His
Apostle.  These are the statutes of God: and for the unbelievers is an
afflictive chastisement!
 
       Truly they who oppose God and His Apostle shall be brought low, as those
who were before them were brought low.  And now have we sent down demonstrative
signs: and, for the Infidels is a shameful chastisement.
 
       On the day when God shall raise them all to life, and shall tell them of
their doings.  God hath taken county of them, though they have forgotten them!
and God is witness over all things.
 
       Dost thou not see that God knoweth all that is in the Heavens and all
that is in the Earth?  Three persons speak not privately together, but He is
their fourth; nor five, but He is their sixth; nor fewer nor more, but wherever
they be He is with them.  Then on the day of resurrection He will tell them of
their deeds: for God knoweth all things.
 
       Hast thou not marked those who have been forbidden secret talk, and
return to what they have been forbidden, and talk privately together with
wickedness, and hate, and disobedience towards the Apostle?  And when they come
to thee, they greet thee not as God greeteth thee: and they say among
themselves, "Why doth not God punish us for what we say?"  Hell shall be their
meed: they shall be burned at its fire: and a wretched passage thither!
 
58:10  O Believers!  when ye hold private converse together, let it not be with
wickedness, and hate, and disobedience towards the Apostle; but let your
private talk be with justice and the fear of God: aye, fear ye God unto whom ye
shall be gathered!
 
       Only of Satan is this clandestine talk, that he may bring the faithful
to grief: but, unless by God's permission, not aught shall he harm them! in God
then let the faithful trust.
 
       O ye who believe! when it is said to you, "Make room in your
assemblies," then make ye room.  God will make room for you in Paradise!  And
when it is said to you, "Rise up," then rise ye up.  God will uplift those of
you who believe, and those to whom "the Knowledge" is given, to lofty grades!
and God is cognisant of your actions.
 
       O ye who believe! when ye go to confer in private with the Apostle, give
alms before such conference.  Better will this be for you, and more pure.  But
if ye have not the means, then truly God is Lenient, Merciful.
 
       Do ye hesitate to give alms previously to your private conference?  Then
if ye do it not (and God will excuse it in you), at least observe prayer,
and pay the stated impost, and obey God and His Apostle: for God is cognisant
of your actions.
 
       Hast thou not remarked those who make friends of that people with whom
God is angered?  They are neither of your party nor of theirs; and they sear to
a lie, knowing it to be such.
 
       God hath got ready for them a severe torment: for, evil is that they do.
 
       They make a cloak of their faith, and turn others aside from the way of
God: wherefore a shameful torment awaiteth them.
 
       Not at all shall their wealth or their children avail them aught against
God.  Companions shall they be of the fire: they shall abide therein for ever.
 
       On the day when God shall raise them all, they will swear to Him as they
now swear to you, deeming that it will avail them.  Are they not - yes they -
the liars?
 
58:20  Satan hath gotten mastery over them, and made them forget the
remembrance of God.  These are Satan's party.  What! shall not verily the party
of Satan be for ever lost.
 
       Verily, they who oppose God and His Apostle shall be among the most
vile.  God hath written this decree:  "I will surely prevail, and my Apostles
also."  Truly God is Strong, Mighty.
 
       Thou shalt not find that any of those who believe in God, and in the
last day, love him who opposeth God and His Apostle, even though they be their
fathers, or their sons, or their brethren, or their nearest kin.  On the hearts
of these hath God graven the Faith, and with His own Spirit hath He
strengthened them; and He will bring them into gardens, beneath whose shades

the rivers flow, to remain therein eternally.  God is well pleased in them, and
they in Him.  These are God's party!  Shall not, of a truth, a part of God be
for ever blessed?
 
 
