SURA LX (60) - She Who is Tried     (Medina - 13 Verses)          (CX - 465)   
 
       In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
 
       O ye who believe! take not my foe and your foe for friends, shewing them
kindness, although they believe not that truth which hath come to you: they
drive forth the Apostles and yourselves because ye believe in God your Lord!
If ye go forth to fight on my way, and from a desire to please me, and shew
them kindness in private, I well know what ye conceal, and what ye discover!
Whoso doth this hath already gone astray from the even way.
 
       If they meet with you they will prove your foes: hand and tongue will
they put forth for your hurt, and will desire that you become infidels again.
 
       Neither your kindred nor your children shall at all avail you on the day
of resurrection.  A severance between you will it make! and your actions doth
God behold.
 
       A good example had ye in Abraham, and in those who followed him, when
they said to their people, "Verily, we are clear of you, and of what ye worship
beside God: we renounce you: and between us and you hath hatred and enmity
sprung up for ever, until ye believe in God alone."  Yet imitate not the
language of Abraham to his Father, "I will pray for thy forgiveness, but not
aught shall I obtain for thee from God."  O our Lord! in thee do we trust! to
thee do we turn! to thee we shall come back at the last.
 
       O our Lord! expose us not for trial to the unbelievers, and forgive us:
for thou art the Mighty, the Wise!
 
       A good example had ye in them, for all who hope in God and in the last
day.  But let who will turn back, God truly is the Rich, the Praiseworthy!
 
       God will, perhaps, establish good will between yourselves and those of
them whom ye take to be your enemies:  God is Powerful: and God is Gracious,
Merciful.
 
       God doth not forbid you to deal with kindness and fairness towards those
who have not made war upon you on account of your religion, or driven you forth
from your homes: for God loveth those who act with fairness.
 
       Only doth God forbid you to make friends of those who, on account of
your religion, have warred against you, and have driven you forth from your
homes, and have aided those who drove you forth: and whosoever maketh friends
of them are wrong-doers.
 
60:10  O Believers! when believing women come over to you as refugees
(Mohadjers), then make trial of them.  God best knoweth their faith; but if ye
have also ascertained their faith, let them not go back to the infidels; they
are not lawful for them, nor are the unbelievers lawful for these women.  But
give them back what they have spent for their dowers.  No crime shall it be in
you to marry them, provided ye give them their dowers.  Do not retain any right
in the infidel women, but demand back what you have spent for their dowers, and
let the unbelievers demand back what they have spent for their wives.  This is
the ordinance of God which He ordaineth among you: and God is Knowing, Wise.
 
       And if any of your wives escape from you to the Infidels from whom ye
afterwards take any spoil, then give to those whose wives shall have fled away,
the like of what they shall have spent for their dowers; and fear God in whom
ye believe.
 
       O Prophet! when believing women come to thee, and pledge themselves that
they will not associate aught with God, and that they will not steal or commit
adultery, nor kill their children, nor bring scandalous charges, nor disobey
thee in what is right, then plight thou thy faith to them, and ask pardon for
them of God: for God is Indulgent, Merciful!
 
       O Believers! enter not into amity with those against whom God is
angered; they despair of the life to come, even as the Infidels despair of the
inmates of the tombs.
 
