SURA LIX (59) - The Emigration    (Medina - 24 verses)         (CII - 431)     
 
       In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
 
       All that is in the Heavens and all that is on the Earth praiseth God!
He, the Mighty, the Wise!
 
       He it is who caused the unbelievers among the people of the Book to quit
their homes and join those who had emigrated previously.  Ye did not think that
they would quit them; and they on their part through that their fortresses
would protect them against God:  But God came upon them whence they looked not
for Him, and cast such fear into their hearts that by their own hands as well
as by the hands of the victorious believers they demolished their houses!
Profit by this example ye who are men of insight!
 
       And were it not that God had decreed their exile, surely in this world
would he have chastised them: but in the world to come the chastisement of the
fire awaiteth them.
 
       This because they set them against God and his apostle; and whoso
setteth him against God....!  God truly is vehement in punishing.
 
       Your cutting down some of their palm trees and sparing others was by
God's permission, and to put the wicked to shame.
 
       After the spoils of these Jews which God hath assigned to his apostle,
ye pressed not with horse or camel.  But God giveth his apostles power over
what he will.  God is Almighty.
 
       The spoil taken from the people of the towns and assigned by God to his
apostle, belongeth to God, and to the apostle, and to his kindred, and to the
orphan, and to the poor, and to the wayfarer, that none of it may circulate
among such of you only as are rich:  What the apostle hath given you, take:
What he hath refused you, refuse:  And fear ye God, for God is severe in
punishing.
 
       To the poor refugees (Mohadjerin) also doth a part belong, who have been
driven from their homes and their substance, and who seek favour from God and
his goodwill, and aid God and his apostle.  These are the men of genuine
virtue.
 
       They of Medina who had been in possession of their abodes and embraced
the faith before them, cherish those who take refuge with them; and they find
not in their breasts any desire for what hath fallen to their share: they
prefer them before themselves, though poverty be their own lot.  And with such
as are preserved from their own covetousness shall it be well.
 
59:10  And they who have come after them into the faith say, "O our Lord!
forgive us and our brethren who have preceded us in the faith, and put not into
our hearts ill-will against those who believe.  O our Lord! thou verily art
Kind, Merciful."
 
       Hast thou not observed the disaffected saying to their unbelieving
brethren among the people of the Book, "If ye be driven forth, we will go forth
with you; and in what concerneth you, never will we obey any one; and if ye be
attacked we will certainly come to your help."  But God is witness that they
are liars.
 
       No! if they were driven forth, they would not share their banishment; if
they were attacked they would not help them, or if they help them they will
surely turn their backs: then would they remain unhelped.
 
       Assuredly the fear of you is more intense in their hearts than the fear
of God!  This because they are a people devoid of discernment.
 
       They (the Jews) will not fight against you in a body except in fenced
towns or from behind walls.  Mighty is their valour among themselves!  thou
thinkest them united - but their hearts are divided.  This for that they are a
people who understand not.
 
       They act like those who lately preceded them, who also tasted the result
of their doings; and a grievous chastisement awaiteth them -
 
       Like Satan when he saith to a man, "Be an infidel:" and when he hath
become an infidel, he saith, "I share not they guilt: verily, I fear God the
Lord of the Worlds."
 
       Of both, therefore, shall the end be that they dwell for ever in the
fire:  This is the recompense of the evil doers.
 
       O ye who believe! fear God.  And let every soul look well to what it
sendeth on before for the morrow.  And fear ye God:  Verily, God is cognisant
of what ye do.
 
       And be ye not like those who forget God, and whom He hath therefore
caused to forget their proper selves.  Such men are the evil doers.
 
59:20  The inmates of the Fire and the inmates of Paradise are  not to be held
equal.  The inmates of Paradise only shall be the blissful.
 
       Had we sent down this Koran on some mountain, thou wouldst certainly
have seen it humbling itself and cleaving asunder for the fear of God.  Such
are the parables we propose to men in order that they may reflect.
 
       He is God beside whom there is no god.  He knoweth things visible and
invisible:  He is the Compassionate, the Merciful.
 
       He is God beside whom there is no god:  He is the King, the Holy, the
Peaceful, the Faithful, the Guardian, the Mighty, the Strong, the Most High!
Far be the Glory of God from that which they united with Him!
 
       He is God, the Producer, the Maker, the Fashioner!  To Him are ascribed
excellent titles.  Whatever is in the Heavens and in the Earth praiseth Him.
He is the Mighty, the Wise!
 
 
